                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

METHOD OF DECISION IN CONTESTED CASES. (§ 102.13)

  METHOD OF DECISION IN CONTESTED CASES.	(a)	Hearing Before Board Itself. 
Where a contested case is heard before the Board itself, no member thereof who
did not hear the evidence or has not read the record or proceedings shall vote
on the decision.	(b)	Hearing Before Examiner.  If a contested case is heard by
a hearing examiner alone, he shall, within 30 days, submit a written report to
the Board.  Such report shall contain a brief summary of the evidence
considered and shall state the examiner’s conclusions and recommendations. 
The report shall contain a proposed decision, in such form that it may be
adopted by the Board as its decision in the case.  All examiners’ reports
shall be filed by the Board as a public record.  A copy of such proposed
decision so filed shall then be mailed to each party.	(c)	Consideration of
Report by Board – Notice.  The Board shall fix a time when the Board will
consider the report.  Notice thereof shall be mailed to each interested party
not less than 12 days prior to the date fixed, unless it is otherwise
stipulated.  (Amended by Ord. No. 161,747, Eff. 12/14/86.)	(d)	Exceptions to
Report.  Not later than six days before the date to consider the report any
party may file written exceptions to any part or all of the Examiner’s report
and may attach thereto a proposed decision together with written arguments in
support of such decision.  By leave of the Board, any party may present oral
argument to the Board. (Amended by Ord. No. 161,747, Eff.
12/14/86.)	(e)	Disposition by Board.  The Board may adopt or reject the
proposed decision in its entirety, or may increase or reduce the proposed
penalty and may adopt the balance of the proposed decision of the hearing
examiner.	(f)	Proposed Decision Not Adopted.  If the proposed decision is not
adopted as provided in Subsection (e), the Board may decide the case upon the
record including the transcript either in whole or in part, with or without
taking additional evidence, or may refer the case to the same or another hearing
examiner to take additional evidence.  If the case is so assigned to a hearing
examiner, he shall prepare a report and proposed decision as provided in
Subsection (b) upon the additional evidence and the transcript and other papers
which are part of the record of the prior hearing.  Consideration of such
proposed decision by the Board shall comply with the provisions of this section.
