                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

MASSAGE THERAPISTS. (§ 103.205.1)

  MASSAGE THERAPISTS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 171,994, Eff. 5/31/98.)	(a)	Definitions.  The words and
phrases defined in Section 103.205(a) of this Code, shall have the same meanings
when used in this section.  In addition thereto, the following words and
phrases shall have the following meanings when used in this
section.	(1)	“Off-Premises Massage Therapist” means a person who, for any
compensation of any kind, gives a massage to a person at a location other than a
place that has a valid and outstanding Massage Business Permit issued pursuant
to Section 103.205(b) of this Code.	(b)	Massage Therapist — Permit Required. 
No person shall engage in the business of acting or act as a Massage Therapist
unless such person holds a valid Massage Therapist permit issued by the Board. 
No person shall engage in the business of acting, or act as an Off-Premises
Massage Therapist unless such person holds a valid permit issued by the Board
and endorsed for Off-Premises work.  Persons not licensed by the State of
California, to practice pursuant to the Medical Practices Act who are employed
by a physician, surgeon, chiropractor, osteopath, acupuncturist, nurse, or other
medical practitioner are not exempt under this section.	(1)	EXEMPTIONS.  This
section shall not apply to the following classes of individuals, and no permit
shall be required of such persons, while engaged in the performance of the
duties of their respective professions:	(i)	Physicians, surgeons, chiropractors,
osteopaths, acupuncturists, or physical therapists who are duly licensed to
practice their respective professions in the State of California.	(ii)	Nurses
who are registered as such under the laws of the State of
California.	(iii)	Barbers and beauticians who are duly licensed under the laws
of the State of California.	(iv)	Athletic trainers employed by or on behalf of a
professional athletic team performing or training within this State shall be
exempt from the provisions of this act.	(v)	Hospitals, nursing homes,
sanitariums, or other health care facilities duly licensed by the State of
California.	(vi)	An exemption granted is effective to the extent that an
exempted person’s practice or profession overlaps with the practice of
massage.	(2)	Additional Requirements.  In addition to those requirements
specified in Chapter X, Article 3, Division 3 of this Code, each applicant for a
Massage Therapist permit shall furnish the following information to the Board
prior to the issuance of a permit, but subsequent to applicant’s having taken
and passed the examination provided for in Section 103.205.1(b) (3).	(i)	Each
residence and business address of applicant for the five (5) years immediately
preceding the date of the application, and the inclusive dates of each such
address.	(ii)	Written proof that the applicant is at least eighteen (18) years
of age.	(iii)	Applicant’s height, weight, color of eyes and hair.	(iv)	Three
(3) photographs of applicant, of a size specified by the Board, taken within the
six (6) months immediately preceding the date of application.	(v)	Applicant’s
business, occupation and employment history for the five (5) years immediately
preceding the date of application.	(vi)	The permit history of the applicant;
whether applicant has ever had any license or permit issued by any agency or
Board, City, County or State revoked or suspended, or has had any professional
or vocational license or permit revoked or suspended, and the reason
therefore.	(vii)	A certificate from a medical doctor, licensed to practice in
the State of California, issued within thirty (30) days, that certifies that
applicant has been examined and had no communicable disease on the date of the
examination.	(viii)	Such other identification and information as may be required
by the Board.	(ix)	Beginning on the effective date of this ordinance all
applicants applying for a massage therapy permit, shall show proof of completion
of a minimum of 150 hours of training at a state approved school of massage. 
Beginning January 1, 2000, all applicants thereafter shall show proof of
completion of 300 hours of training at a state approved school of
massage.	(x)	All criminal convictions excluding traffic misdemeanors or
infraction violations, shall be reported.	(xi)	Each applicant must furnish a
diploma or certificate and transcript of graduation from an approved school
wherein the method, profession, anatomical and physiological knowledge and
practice of a massage therapist are taught.  The term “approved school”
shall mean and include any school or institute of learning licensed by the State
of California and approved by the State Superintendent of Public Instruction
pursuant to Education Code Section 94311D and reviewed by the superintendent
within the preceding twelve month period which school has for its purpose
teaching of theory, the method, profession, or work of massage therapists and
which school requires a resident course of study of not less than 150 hours or
300 hours beginning January 1, 2000.  Schools offering a correspondence course
not requiring actual attendance shall not be deemed a recognized school.  The
City of Los Angeles shall have the right to confirm that the applicant has
actually attended a class in a State approved school.  If requested, the
applicant must also supply a course description, an outline of material covered,
a certified transcript and a letter to the City from the school administrator
verifying completion or alternative documentation of education completed as
verified and approved by the City, Board, or its agents and employees, in cases
where the school no longer is in business.  The Board may consider an
applicants study of massage completed outside the State of California if proof
of completion of a formalized course of study in massage practice, anatomy, and
physiology is provided upon application.  Proof of completion shall include,
but not be limited to dates of study, the name of the school attended and the
address and phone number of the school attended.  Any outside course of study
submitted for approval shall meet the State of California’s Office of Post
Secondary Education minimum requirements and the City of Los Angeles’ permit
requirements.  The provisions of this subsection may be satisfied by proof
satisfactory to the Board that the applicant has graduated from an educational
institution licensed or approved by another State and having equivalent
standards as provided herein, or by proof that the applicant has passed the
examination administered by the National Certification Board for Therapeutic
Massage and Bodywork.	(xii)	Authorization for the City, Board, its agents and
employees to seek verification of the information contained in the application
and qualification of the applicant for the permit.	(xiii)	A statement in writing
by the applicant that he or she certifies under penalty of perjury that all
information contained in the application is true and correct, said declaration
being duly dated and signed in the City.	(3)	Annual Medical Certificate.  Each
Massage Therapist shall annually at the time of the renewal of his or her permit
supply the Board with a new medical certificate required by Section 103.205.1(b)
(2) (vii) of this Code.	(c)	Massage Therapist Permit Issuance and
Denial.	(1)	Upon receipt of written application for a permit, the Board shall
conduct an investigation to ascertain whether such permit should be issued as
requested.  The permit shall be denied if the Board makes any of the following
findings:	(a)	The applicant has been convicted of a violation of Health and
Safety Code Section 11550 or a violation of Penal Code Sections 266i, 315, 316,
318, 647(a) or 647(b), or has been convicted in any other state of any offense
which if committed or attempted in this state, would have been punished as one
or more of the above mentioned offenses, or that any such person is required to
register under the provisions of Penal Code Section 290.	(b)	The applicant has
been convicted of a felony offense involving the sale of a controlled substance
specified in Health and Safety Code Sections 11054, 11055, 11056, 11057 or 11058
or has been convicted in any other state of any offense which, if committed or
attempted in this state would have been punishable as one or more of the above
mentioned offenses.	(c)	The applicant has committed an act, which, if done by a
permittee under this section, would be grounds for suspension or revocation of a
permit.	(d)	The applicant has committed an act involving dishonesty, fraud, or
deceit with the intent to substantially benefit himself, herself, or another or
substantially to injure another, or an act of violence, which act or acts are
substantially related to the qualifications functions, or duties of the Massage
Therapist.	(e)	The applicant has knowingly made a false, misleading, or
fraudulent statement of fact to the City in the permit application
process.	(f)	The applicant has not satisfied the requirements of this
Code.	(e)	Operative Date –   All persons operating or employed as masseurs or
masseuses in Massage establishments at the time this ordinance becomes effective
shall obtain a Massage Therapist Permit within one year of the effective date of
this ordinance.	(a)	Every massage therapist/practitioner licensed pursuant to
Section 103.205.1 shall be required for renewal in 2001 and each subsequent
renewal thereafter, to complete 6 contact hours of continuing education courses
approved by the Board.  Such courses shall have been completed within the 12
months preceding the date the renewal is due.
