                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SELLERS OF FIREARMS. (§ 103.314)

  SELLERS OF FIREARMS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 170,212, Eff. 2/5/95.)	(a)	Definitions.	1.	“Firearm”
means any pistol, revolver, rifle, shotgun or other device designed to be used
as a weapon, from which a projectile is expelled through a barrel by the force
of an explosion or any other form of combustion, or any device which is capable
of being altered so as to expel a projectile in such manner.	2.	“Firearms
Dealer” means any person engaged in the business of selling, transferring or
leasing at retail, advertising for sale, transfer or lease at retail or offering
or exposing for sale, transfer or lease at retail, any
firearm.	3.	“Residential Neighborhood” means any district of the City zoned
for residential use or, if not so zoned, any street segment bounded by
intersecting streets wherein over fifty percent of the buildings on that street
segment are used for residential purposes.	(b)	Presumption.  For the purposes
of this section there shall be a presumption that any person who has been issued
a valid Federal firearms license has acquired such license with an intent to
engage in the sale of firearms.	(c)	Permit Required.  No person shall engage
in, manage, conduct or carry on the business of a firearms dealer without a
written permit from the “Board.”	(d)	Fixed location.  Each permittee must
have a fixed place of business. Sales of firearms may be made only at said fixed
location.	(e)	Overlapping Business.  If any person engages in, conducts,
manages or carries on at the same time more than one business requiring police
permits, such person shall comply with all of the provisions affecting each
business.	(f)	Condition of Issuance.  No permit or renewal permit shall be
issued unless:	1.	The applicant has a valid Federal firearms license, a valid
seller’s permit issued by the State of California Board of Equalization and a
certificate of eligibility as described in Section 12071 of the Penal Code of
the State of California;	2.	The applicant has obtained all other required
permits for the operation of the business as proposed and has complied with all
other applicable laws;	3.	The applicant provides evidence of a possessory
interest such as owner, lessee or renter, in the property at which the business
is proposed to be conducted;	4.	The proposed location of the business is other
than in a residential neighborhood;	5.	The applicant has obtained a policy of
insurance as provided in Subdivision (g).	6.	The applicant agrees to indemnify,
defend and hold harmless the City, its officers, agents and employees, from
claims arising from the negligence of the applicant or permittee; and	7.	The
applicant has been provided and has read copies of Municipal Code Section
103.314 and  the Police Commission Board Rules relating to that
section.	(g)	Insurance Requirements.  The permittee shall maintain in full
force and effect a policy of insurance on file with the City Attorney.  Such
policy shall be executed by an insurance company admitted to do business in this
state, and shall be in a form that the City deems proper.  It shall insure the
applicant or permittee against liability for damage to property and for injury
to or the death of any person as a result of the sale, transfer or lease, or
the  advertising for sale, transfer or lease, or the  offering or exposing for
sale, transfer or lease, of any firearm.  The policy shall also name the City
and its officers, agents and employees as additional insureds.  The minimum
liability limit shall not be less than One Million Dollars ($1,000,000.00) for
damage to or destruction of property in any one incident, and One Million
Dollars ($1,000,000.00) for the death or injury to any one person.  Provided,
however, that additional amounts may be required by the City if deemed
necessary.	Such policy of insurance shall contain an endorsement providing that
the policy will be continuous until canceled by a 30-day written notice sent by
registered mail to the City Attorney 30 days in advance of the cancellation
date.  Prior to cancellation of any such policy, permittee shall secure
equivalent insurance.  Failure to so do is grounds for revocation of the
permit.	(h)	Denial of Permit.  Any applicant who is denied a permit shall be
informed of the reasons for denial.	(i)	Permit Valid for Issuance.  When issued
the permit shall state on its face “Valid for Retail Sale of
Firearms.”	(j)	Consent to Inspection.  The acceptance of a permit to engage
in the business of a firearms dealer constitutes consent to inspection of the
books, records and business premises in the manner set forth in Section 103.14
of this Code.	(k)	Permit Assignment.  The assignment or attempted assignment of
any permit issued pursuant to this section, otherwise than in connection with a
change of ownership as provided in Section 103.08, is unlawful and any such
assignment or attempted assignment shall render the permit null and
void.	(l)	Permittee Responsible For The Conduct Of Business.  No firearms or
ammunition shall be sold or leased or offered for sale or lease or advertised
for sale or lease by the permittee, nor shall the permittee otherwise conduct
its business, in violation of the Penal Code of the State of California, this
section or any other applicable law.	(m)	Sale of Saturday Night Specials
Prohibited.  (New Subsec. (m) Added by Ord. No. 171,268, Eff.
10/6/96.)	1.	Definition.  Except as provided in Subdivision 2 of this
subsection, the term “Saturday Night Special” shall mean any of the
following:	(i)	A pistol, revolver or firearm capable of being concealed upon the
person, as those terms are defined in California Penal Code Section 12001(a),
which contains a frame, barrel, breechblock, cylinder or slide that is not
completely fabricated of heat treated carbon steel, forged alloy or other
material of equal or higher tensile strength;	(ii)	A semi-automatic pistol
which:	(a)	is not originally equipped by the manufacturer with a locked-breech
action; and	(b)	is chambered for cartridges developing maximum permissible
breech pressures above 24,100 Copper Units of Pressure as standardized by the
Sporting Arms and Ammunition Manufacturers Institute;	(c)	for purpose of this
subdivision, “semi-automatic pistol” shall mean a firearm, as defined in
California Penal Code Section 12001(b), which is designed to be held and fired
with one hand, and which does the following upon discharge:	(i)	fires the
cartridge in the chamber;	(ii)	ejects the fired cartridge case; and	(iii)	loads
a cartridge from the magazine into the chamber.  “Semi-automatic pistol”
shall not include any assault weapon designated in California Penal Code Section
12276.	(iii)	A pistol, revolver, or firearm capable of being concealed upon the
person, as those terms are defined in California Penal Code Section 12001(a),
which:	(a)	uses an action mechanism which is substantially identical in design
to any action mechanism manufactured in or before 1898 that was originally
chambered for rimfire ammunition developing maximum permissible breech pressures
below 19,000 Copper Units of Pressure as standardized by the Sporting Arms and
Ammunition Manufacturers Institute; and	(b)	is chambered to fire either
centerfire ammunition or rimfire ammunition developing maximum permissible
breech pressures above 19,000 Copper Units of Pressure as standardized by the
Sporting Arms and Ammunition Manufacturers Institute; and	(c)	is not originally
equipped by the manufacturer with a nondetachable safety guard surrounding the
trigger; or	(d)	is equipped with a barrel of less than 20 bore diameters in
overall length protruding from the frame.	(e)	for purpose of this subdivision,
“action mechanism” shall mean the mechanism of a firearm by which it is
loaded, locked, fired and unloaded.	2.	EXCLUSIONS:  The term “Saturday Night
Special” does not include any of the following;	(i)	Any pistol which is an
antique or relic firearm or other weapon falling within the specifications of
Paragraphs (5), (7) and (8) of Subsection (b) of California Penal Code Section
12020; or	(ii)	Any pistol for which the propelling force is classified as
pneumatic, that is, of, or related to, compressed air or any other gases not
directly produced by combustion.	(iii)	Children’s pop guns or toys; or	(iv)	An
“unconventional pistol” as defined in California Penal Code Section
12020(c)(12); or	(v)	Any pistol which has been modified to either render it
permanently inoperable or permanently to make it a device no longer classified
as a “Saturday Night Special”.	3.	Roster of Saturday Night Specials. 
Within 30 days after the effective date of this Subsection, the Chief of Police
shall compile, publish and distribute to dealers licensed under this section to
sell guns at retail, a roster of Saturday Night Specials which shall list those
firearms, by manufacturer and model number, which the Chief determines satisfy
the definition of “Saturday Night Specials” set forth in this
subsection.	4.	Publication.  The Chief shall publish the roster of Saturday
Night Specials on a semiannual basis and shall send a copy of the roster to
every dealer licensed under the provisions of this section.	5.	Sale
Prohibited.  No firearms dealer licensed to sell firearms under this section
shall sell, offer or display for sale, give, lend or transfer ownership of, any
firearm listed on the roster of Saturday Night Specials received by the
licensee.  This section shall prohibit a licensee from processing firearm
transactions between unlicensed parties pursuant to Section 12072(d) of the
Penal Code of the State of California.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,758, Eff.
11/23/97.)	6.	Exemptions:  Nothing in this section shall prohibit the
disposition of any Saturday Night Special by police departments, sheriff’s
offices, marshall’s offices, the California Highway Patrol, other local, state
and federal law enforcement agencies, or the military and naval forces of this
state or the United States for use in the discharge of their official duties;
nor shall anything in this section prohibit the use of any Saturday Night
Special by regular, salaried, full-time officers, employees or agents thereof
when on duty and the use of such firearms is within the scope of their
duties.	(n)	Conditions of Employment by Permittee.  (Amended by Ord. No.
180,451, Eff. 2/7/09.)	1.	No officer, employee or agent of the permittee,
hereinafter referred to collectively as “employee”, who will have access to
and control of firearms or ammunitions shall:	(i)	be under twenty-one years of
age;	(ii)	have had a Federal firearms license revoked or denied within the last
year;	(iii)	be prohibited by law from owning, possessing or having custody or
control of any firearm as defined in such law;	(iv)	have been convicted of any
firearms related offense within the last five years.	2.	Prior to employment, all
prospective employees of the permittee shall make application to the Board for
employment authorization and shall submit all required information and fees,
together with fingerprints as required by Section 103.02.1 of this Code, to the
Board.  The applicant for employment shall be advised by the Board as to the
approval of the application as soon as processing has been completed.  No
applicant for employment may be hired until and unless the application for
employment has been approved by the Board.  This provision shall also apply to
any employee in the employment of the permittee who has access to and control of
firearms or ammunition at the time the provision becomes effective, and such an
employee must also submit an application to the Board.  An employee in the
employment of the permittee at the time this provision becomes effective who
does not meet all of the above conditions must be released from employment
within ninety days after notification to the permittee that the employee has
failed to meet all of the above conditions.	(o)	Trigger Locks.  (New Subsec.
(o) Added by Ord. No. 171,758, Eff. 11/23/97.)  A trigger lock is a device
which is designed to prevent the firearm from functioning and which is locked by
a padlock, key lock, combination lock, or a similar locking device, that is
reusable, and, when applied to the weapon, renders the weapon inoperable.  The
permittee shall not sell, lease or otherwise transfer a firearm without also
selling or otherwise providing a trigger lock with each such firearm sold,
leased or otherwise transferred.  In the event trigger locks are not
manufactured for a particular firearm, the requirement is satisfied by selling a
similar device designed to prevent the unintentional discharge of
firearms.	(p)	Rules For The Protection Of Firearms.  (Subsec. (n) Redesignated
as (p) by Ord. No. 171,758, Eff. 11/23/97.)  The Board shall adopt and enforce
by rules and regulations security requirements consistent with State law for the
protection from theft of firearms and ammunition sold and maintained by any
permittee.  Such rules may require that any permittee provide burglar alarms
systems, separate storage areas for ammunition and other measures designed to
prevent the theft of such merchandise from the premises of the
permittee.	(q)	Warning Regarding Dangers of Firearms in the Home.  (New Subsec.
(q) Added by Ord. No. 178,996, Eff. 9/3/07.)  Within 30 days after the
effective date of this subsection, the permittee shall do the following:	1.	Post
conspicuously within the premises the following warning in block letters not
less than one inch in height:WARNING:  THE CITY OF LOS ANGELES HAS DETERMINED
THAT GUNS IN THE HOME ARE MUCH MORE LIKELY TO BE USED TO KILL OR INJURE A
HOUSEHOLD MEMBER THAN TO PROTECT AGAINST AN ATTACKER.  IT IS SAFEST NOT TO KEEP
A GUN IN THE HOME.  IF A GUN IS KEPT IN THE HOME, IT SHOULD BE KEPT UNLOADED
AND SECURELY LOCKED AND AMMUNITION SHOULD BE LOCKED SEPARATELY.	2.	Provide all
firearm purchasers with a bill of sale for the purchase of the firearm(s), which
includes the warning language required in Subdivision 1. of this
subsection.	(r)	Physical Inventory Inspections.  (New Subsec. (r) Added by Ord.
No. 180,451, Eff. 2/7/09.)  Within the first five business days of April and
October of each year, permittees shall cause a physical inventory to be taken
that includes a listing of each firearm held by the permittee by make, model,
and serial number.  In addition, the inventory shall include a listing of each
firearm lost or stolen that is required to be reported pursuant to Penal Code
Section 12071(b)(13).  Permittees shall maintain a copy of the inventory on the
premises for which the license was issued.  Immediately upon completion of the
inventory, permittees shall forward a copy of the inventory to the address
specified by the Board, by such means as specified by the Board.  With each
copy of the inventory, permittees shall include an affidavit signed by the
permittee (or, if the permittee is not a natural person, by an officer, general
manager, or other principal of the permittee) stating under penalty of perjury
that within the first five business days of that April or October, as the case
may be, the signer personally confirmed the presence of the firearms and all
other information reported on the inventory.	(s)	Revocation of Permit. 
(Subsec. (r) Redesignated as (s) by Ord. No. 180,451, Eff. 2/7/09.)  In
addition to any other grounds for revocation of a permit, such permit shall be
revoked if permittee’s Federal firearms license is revoked or
expires.	(t)	(Subsec. (s) Redesignated as (t) by Ord. No. 180,451, Eff.
2/7/09.)  If any provision of this ordinance is found to be unconstitutional or
otherwise invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, that invalidity shall
not affect the remaining provisions, which can be implemented without the
invalid provisions, and to this end, the provisions of this ordinance are
declared to be severable.
