                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEFINITIONS. (§ 103.01)

  DEFINITIONS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 175,676, Eff. 1/11/04.)	Applicant means a person who files
an application for a permit from the Board.	Board means the Board of Police
Commissioners or the Police Permit Review Panel if the Board delegates the
authority to the Panel pursuant to Section 102.13.01(d).	Business means any
occupation, trade, establishment or concern, regardless of form, which provides
services, products or entertainment for which a permit is required under this
article, whether or not a permit has been granted, sought, applied for, denied,
revoked or suspended.	Department means the Los Angeles Police Department. 
(Added by Ord. No. 181,776, Eff. 8/22/11.)	Director of Finance means the
Director of Finance for the City of Los Angeles, or his or her deputy.
 	Employee means any and all persons, including operators, managers,
entertainers, and independent contractors who work in or at or render any
services directly related to the operation of the business, whether or not the
person is paid compensation by the business.  This definition does not apply to
persons incidentally involved with the business, such as persons delivering
goods, food and beverages, or performing maintenance or repairs to the business
premises.  	Entertainer means any person who performs specified sexual
activities or displays specified anatomical parts in a business.	Executive
Director means the Executive Director of the Board of Police Commissioners. 
(Added by Ord. No. 181,776, Eff. 8/22/11.)	Hearing Examiner means any person
appointed by the Board to conduct hearings provided by this article.	Manager
means any person appointed by an owner, operator or permittee of a business, who
manages, directs, administers, or is in charge of the affairs and/or the conduct
or operation of a business.  This definition includes assistant managers.	Owner
means (1) a sole proprietor or person(s) who own or operate a business; (2) all
general partners of a partnership that owns or operates a business; (3) all
officers of a corporation and all persons who own a controlling interest in a
corporation or other limited liability entity that operates a business. 	Patron
means any individual, other than an employee, present in or at the business
premises at any time during the hours of operation.  This definition does not
apply to persons incidentally involved with the business, such as persons
delivering goods, food and beverages, or performing maintenance or repairs to
the business premises.	Permittee means any person having a valid permit issued
by the Board as required by the Los Angeles Municipal Code.  	Premises means
the building and real property occupied or used in the operation of the
business, or the space in the building occupied by the business if the business
does not utilize the entire building in the operation of the business.	Sexually
oriented material means any element of sexually oriented merchandise, or any
book, periodical, magazine, photograph, drawing, sculpture, motion picture film,
video, compact disc, or other written, oral or visual representation, which is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or
relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical parts.
 	Sexually oriented merchandise means sexually oriented implements and
paraphernalia, such as, but not limited to condoms, lap dance bags, benwa balls,
dildos, auto sucks, sexually oriented vibrators, inflatable orifices, anatomical
balloons with orifices, simulated and battery operated vaginas, and similar
sexually oriented devices that are designed or marketed primarily for the
stimulation of or use with the stimulation of human genital organs or for
sadomasochistic activity.	Specified anatomical parts means:	1.	Less than
completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, natal
cleft, perineum, anus, anal region, pubic region, or female breast below a point
immediately below the top of the areola; or	2.	Human male genitals in a
discernibly turgid state, even if completely and opaquely covered.	Specified
sexual activities means:	1.	Actual or simulated:  sexual intercourse, oral
copulation, anal intercourse, oral anal copulation, bestiality, masturbation,
direct physical stimulation of unclothed genitals, flagellation or torture in
the context of a sexual relationship, or the use of excretory function in the
context of a sexual relationship; or any of the following depicted sexually
oriented acts or conduct, whether actual or simulated: anilingus, buggery,
coprophilia, coprophagy, cunnilingus, fellatio, necrophilia, pederasty,
pedophilia, sapphism, urophilia, zooerastia, zoophilia; or	2.	Clearly depicted
human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal or tumescence;
or	3.	Use of human or animal ejaculation; or	4.	Fondling or touching of nude
human genitals, pubic region, buttocks, natal cleft, anal region, anus, or
female breast; or	5.	Masochism, erotic or sexually oriented torture, beating or
the infliction of pain; or	6.	Erotic or lewd touching, fondling, or other
sexually oriented contact with an animal by a human being; or	7.	The presence of
any person who performs a striptease, or appears in attire where specified
anatomical parts are either not opaquely covered or minimally covered with
bikinis, lingerie, or devices commonly referred to as pasties and G-strings, or
any other similar opaque covering.
