                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

TOWING OPERATION. (§ 103.204)

  TOWING OPERATION.
	(Added by Ord. No. 139,363, Eff. 11/23/69.)	(a)	Defined.  As used in this
article, “towing operation” means the activity of towing vehicles for
compensation within the City of Los Angeles. Towing operation includes the
storing of vehicles and all other services performed incident to
towing.	EXEMPTIONS:	The provisions of this section shall not apply to any towing
operation:	(1)	That provides tow service exclusively to members of an
association, automobile club or similar organization, and receives remuneration
only from the sponsoring association, automobile club or similar
organization;	(2)	That provides tow service without charge or fee for other
vehicles owned or operated by the individual or organization furnishing tow
service;	(3)	That provides tow service for other vehicles owned or operated by
the individual or organization furnishing the tow service, but which are being
operated under terms of a rent or lease agreement or contract, and such towing
is performed on a non-profit basis or said fee is a part of the rent or lease
agreement or contract;	(4)	That, being located in another city, enters the City
of Los Angeles on a non-emergency towing assignment for the purpose of towing a
disabled vehicle back to said city for repair.	A non-emergency towing assignment
includes towing of vehicles that have been involved in a collision, but have
been removed from the scene, that have experienced mechanical failure, but have
been removed from the roadway and no longer constitute a hazard; or that, being
mechanically operative, are towed for convenience. All non-emergency towing
assignments require prior authorization by persons listed in (f)(1), (2), (3) or
(4). Persons soliciting for such non-emergency towing assignments within the
City of Los Angeles shall be deemed to come within the provisions of this
article and are required to have a permit as specified herein.	(b)	Permit
Required.  No person shall engage in, manage, conduct or operate a towing
operation business without a written permit from the Board.	(c)	Business
Location.  Any person conducting a towing operation-business shall maintain a
physical location from which said business is conducted. Such physical location
shall provide an office with an adjacent yard for vehicle storage. Such location
shall be approved by the Board prior to the permit being issued.	(d)	Change of
Location.  A change of location may be endorsed on a permit by the Board upon
an application by the permittee accompanied by the change of location fee
prescribed by Section 103.12 of this Code.	(e)	Towing Authorization.  A
permittee shall not attach a vehicle to a tow unit without first receiving
written authorization to do so by the registered owner, legal owner, driver, or
other person in control of said vehicle. Such authorization shall list the
services offered and the rates and charges required therefor. A copy of such
authorization shall be furnished to the person authorizing the tow. Such copy
shall list the name, address and telephone number of the towing operation
business and the days and hours the business is open for release of vehicles.
Such copy shall also be signed by the tow unit operator performing the
authorized service.	(f)	Itemized Statement – When Required.  A permittee
shall hereunder furnish an itemized statement to the person authorizing the
towing service, or his agent. Such permittee shall furnish an itemized statement
of services performed, labor and special equipment used in completing tow of
vehicle and of the charges made therefor upon the request of:	(1)	The registered
owner; or	(2)	The legal owner; or	(3)	The insurance carrier of either (1) or
(2); or	(4)	The duly authorized agent of (1), (2), or (3).	Such permittee shall
furnish a copy of the statement to any person authorized to receive the
statement without demanding payment as a condition precedent.	(g)	Vehicle Repair
or Alteration – When Permitted.  A permittee hereunder shall refrain from
making any repairs or alterations to a vehicle without first being authorized by
one of the persons listed in (f) (1), (2), (3), or (4). Parts or accessories
shall not be removed from vehicles without authorization except as necessary for
security purposes. Under such circumstances, the parts or accessories removed
shall be listed on the itemized statement and stored in the business office.
This section shall not be construed to prohibit permittees from making emergency
alterations necessary to permit the removal by towing of such
vehicle.	(h)	Disciplinary Action – Additional Grounds.  The following acts
committed by a permittee hereunder shall be grounds for disciplinary action in
addition to the grounds listed in Section 103.35 of this Code.	(1)	The
permittee, his agents or employees, obtained a tow contract by use of fraud,
trick, dishonesty or forgery; or	(2)	The permittee, his agents or employees,
stopped on any street, highway or other public thoroughfare to render assistance
to a person or disabled vehicle without first being requested to do so;
or	(3)	The permittee, his agents or employees, towed a vehicle to a location
other than listed as the business address of such permittee without first
receiving authorization to do so by the person authorizing the tow; or	(4)	The
permittee, his agents or employees, after towing a vehicle to the business
location of permittee, without authorization, towed such vehicle to another
location for storage; or	(5)	The permittee, his agents or employees, have
conspired with any person to defraud any owner of any vehicle, or any insurance
company, or any other person financially interested in the cost of the towing or
storage of any vehicle, by making false or deceptive statements relating to the
towing or storage of any vehicle; or	(6)	The permittee, his agent or employees,
removed a vehicle involved in a collision prior to arrival by police, and; a
person, as a result of such collision, suffered death or injury, or the driver
of an involved vehicle, or a party to such collision, was under the influence of
an intoxicant of any nature, or there is evidence that such vehicle was involved
in a hit and run collision; or	(7)	The permittee, his agent or employees, have
charged for services not performed, equipment not employed or used, services or
equipment not needed, or have otherwise materially misstated the nature of any
service performed or equipment used.	(8)	Failure of the permittee, his agent or
employees, while on duty as an Official Police Garage Tow Unit Operator to wear
the uniform of an Official Police Garage Tow Unit Operator as specified by the
Board. (Amended by Ord. No. 143,624, Eff. 8/24/72.)	(i)	Prerequisite to
Application.	(1)	Insurance Required.  Before an application for a permit to
operate a towing operation will be received or acted upon, the applicant must
file with the City Attorney satisfactory evidence of insurance written by an
insurance company admitted to do business in this State.	(2)	Insurance Coverage
– Minimum Required.  Applicants are required to have minimum coverage as
follows:	(A)	Bodily injury – $100,000 any one person, $300,000 covering two or
more persons in any one accident.	(B)	Property damage – $25,000 each
accident.	(C)	Comprehensive fire and theft covering auto and
contents.	(j)	Release of Vehicle.  Permittees shall provide for release of
vehicles Monday through Friday from 9:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., excluding officially
recognized holidays. Permittees may additionally release vehicles on other days
and hours.	Upon the application to the Board and a showing of hardship by the
permittee, the Board may permit an adjustment in the days and hours during which
vehicles are to be released.	(k)	Rates and Charges – Signs – Change
of.	(1)	Permittees shall maintain a sign listing the rules and charges of all
services offered. Such sign shall be conspicuously placed in the office or other
place where customer financial transactions take place. The letters on such sign
shall be a minimum of one inch high with one quarter inch stroke. The letters
shall be a contrasting color from the background.	(2)	Applicants for towing
operation permits shall file a schedule of rates and charges for each service
offered with their application. No charge other than the rates and charges
specified in such schedule shall be made except as herein provided.	Changes in
rates and charges shall be made by written notice containing the new schedule of
rates and charges to the Board at least 10 days prior to becoming effective. A
duplicate copy of such notice shall be posted for a period of 10 days in the
office next to the posted schedule of the existing rates and charges. Upon the
expiration of the 10-day period the rates and charges shall be changed in
accordance with such notice.	The Board may, upon a showing of hardship, permit a
revision of the rate and charge schedule within the 10-day
period.	(l)	Notification to the Police Department – When Required.  The Board
may require a permittee to make notification to the Police Department whenever a
vehicle is towed under the provisions of this article. Such notification shall
be made as prescribed by the Board.	(m)	Tow Unit Operator – Identification. 
A tow unit operator shall wear his name insignia attached in a conspicuous place
on his clothing. A tow unit operator shall identify himself by giving his full,
correct name to any patron of the towing operation upon request.	(n)	Tow Unit
– Identification.  A tow unit shall have the permittee’s Police Commission
identification number on both sides of the unit in a conspicuous place. Such
marking shall be in addition to those required by the California Vehicle Code
and shall meet the same requirements.	(o)	Investigation.  Upon the filing of
such application the Board shall make investigation as it deems necessary, and
if the Board finds that the conduct or operation of a towing operation would not
be detrimental or injurious to the public welfare, and that the applicant is of
good character and of good business repute, and has not been convicted of theft
or embezzlement, or of any offense involving the unlawful use, taking or
conversion of a vehicle belonging to another, and is otherwise a fit and proper
person to conduct a towing operation, or if the applicant is a corporation, its
officers, directors and principal stockholders are of good character and of good
business repute, and have not been convicted of theft or embezzlement, or of any
offense involving the unlawful use, taking or conversion of a vehicle belonging
to another, and are otherwise fit and proper persons to conduct such business,
issue the permit, otherwise, the application shall be denied only after the
Board shall conduct a hearing on said application.
