                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SKATING RINKS. (§ 103.115)

  SKATING RINKS.	(a)	Definition.  As used in this article:	1.	“SKATING RINK,
PUBLIC” means a place where skating is regularly conducted on certain days as
a business, whether for profit or not, and to which the public is admitted,
either with or without charge or at which the public is allowed to participate
in the skating either with or without charge.	(b)	Permit Required.  No person
shall conduct or manage a skating rink without a written permit from the
Board.	(c)	Special Police Officers.  A permittee conducting a skating rink may
apply to the Board for the appointment of a special police officer to attend
such skating rink for the purpose of preserving law and order. Such special
police officer shall be paid by such permittee. The presence of a special police
officer at a skating rink shall not relieve the permittee or his employees from
the responsibility for violation of any law or ordinance.	(d)	Minors.  No minor
less than 16 years of age may enter or remain in a skating rink establishment
unaccompanied by a parent or guardian between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 9:00
a.m. unless the parent or guardian of such person has signed and filed with the
owner, manager or operator of the skating rink a consent form of a type approved
by the Board. Such form must be signed by the parent or guardian in the presence
of the owner, manager or operator. (Amended by Ord. No. 157,231, Eff.
12/30/82.)	(e)	Illumination.  All skating rinks must be properly lighted when
open to the public.	(f)	Locations Prohibited.  No person shall erect, operate
or maintain any skating rink or any building or other structure within which
persons are permitted to use roller skates for skating within 200 feet of any
schoolhouse, church or hospital.	(g)	Public Hearings.  The Board shall require
a public hearing prior to taking action on an application for a permit pursuant
to this section. The applicant shall cause to be published a notice of public
hearing two times at intervals of not less than five days, within the 21-day
period following the filing of an application, in a newspaper of general
circulation in the district where the business is to be located. Furthermore,
the Board may give notice by mail to all property owners within three hundred
feet of the proposed business. The Board shall cause a suitable public notice to
be posted at the location where the business is to be conducted. The applicant
shall bear all expenses involved in mailing, printing, publishing and posting
such notice. Such public notice shall conform to the rules and regulations
adopted by the Board and shall be designed to inform the public as to the nature
of the business to be engaged in, its location, the names of the applicant or
applicants, the time of the public hearing and the right of persons objecting to
be heard. Any interested persons may file written protests or objections, or
appear at the hearing. The Board shall give consideration to all such protests
in reaching a decision on such application. (Amended by Ord. No. 137,649, Eff.
1/6/69.)
