                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PERMIT APPLICATIONS. (§ 103.02.1)

  PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 177,412, Eff. 5/1/06.)	(a)	Written Application
Requirements.  The owner of a business shall file an application for a permit
with the Office of Finance.  The application shall be in writing on forms
provided, and shall be accompanied by the fee set forth in Section 103.12.  The
applicant shall provide all the information and documents requested on the
application form, including fingerprints according to Department of Justice
guidelines.  In addition to the fee set forth in Section 103.12, each set of
required fingerprints shall be accompanied by a fingerprint processing fee,
which shall be equal to the fee charged by the State of California to the City
of Los Angeles to process the fingerprints.  Applications shall be signed under
penalty of perjury by the applicant.	(b)	Changes to Applicant Information.  Any
change to the applicant information that occurs while the application is pending
shall be reported in writing within seven calendar days to the
Board.	(c)	Application Information to be Maintained Confidential.  All
information compiled pursuant to this section shall be held and maintained by
the City as confidential, with the exception of the name of the applicant(s),
business name, business address, and any other information that appears on the
face of the permit.	(d)	Duty to Submit Complete Application; Determination of
Completeness.  Upon submission of an application for a permit to be issued by
the Board, the Office of Finance shall accept the application and indicate on
the application the date and time the application was filed.  If the Board
determines that an application for a permit is not complete, the application
shall be returned to the applicant without any further action of the Board. 
Incomplete applications for permits under Sections 103.102 and 103.109 shall be
returned to the applicant within ten business days of the date the application
was filed with the Office of Finance; all other incomplete applications shall be
returned to the applicant within 30 business days of the date the application
was filed with the Office of Finance.  The returned application shall be
accompanied by a written statement specifying all the reasons for its return. 
The applicant shall have 30 calendar days to submit additional information to
render the application complete.  Failure to do so within the 30 day period
shall cause the application to be denied.  If an amended application or
supplemental information is submitted within the 30 day period, the Board shall
again determine whether the application is complete in accordance with the
procedures above.
