                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DANCING ACADEMIES. (§ 103.105)

  DANCING ACADEMIES.	(a)	Definitions.  As used in this article:	1.	“DANCING
ACADEMY” means a regularly established place of business maintained or
conducted principally for the purpose of giving instructions in
dancing.	(b)	Permit Required.  No person shall engage in, manage, conduct,
maintain, or carry on the business of furnishing a place where instruction in
dancing is given without a written permit from the Board.	(c)	Change of
Location.  A change of location may be endorsed on a permit by the Board upon
written application by the permittee accompanied by the change of location fee
prescribed in Section 103.12.	(d)	Invitational Dance.  Persons other than those
receiving regular instruction therein may be admitted to a dance, ball or dance
instruction at a dancing academy by bona fide written invitation.  Such
invitation must be issued to a person named therein prior to the date specified
in the invitation.  Only the named person and not more than two other guests
may be admitted by such invitation.  The invitation shall be surrendered to a
doorkeeper or ticket taker at the entrance to the dancing academy.	The invitee
shall write the names and addresses of his guests on the back of the invitation
before presentation to the doorkeeper or ticket taker. Nothing in this section
shall apply to the admission to a dancing academy of musicians or other persons
regularly employed in the conduct of the dance, ball or dancing
instruction.	(e)	Public Dance – Unless Invitations.  Every dance or ball
given by a dancing academy for or to which former pupils of such academy are
admitted shall be deemed to be a public dance unless all the provisions in this
section concerning the issuance of invitations are complied with.	(f)	Register
Required.  Every person conducting, maintaining or carrying on a dancing
academy shall keep at all times a register of all persons instructed in dancing
therein, in which shall be entered:	1.	The name of each and every such
person;	2.	The time when such instruction begins;	3.	The time when the same
terminates;	4.	The dates upon which instruction is given or contracted to be
given;	5.	In the case of a female minor under the age of 18 years or a male
minor under the age of 17 years, the name of the parent or guardian or other
person exercising parental control over such minor with whom the contract for
instruction for dancing was made on behalf of such minor.  Said register shall
be at all time open to the inspection of the Chief of Police and the members of
the Police Department.	(g)	Intoxicating Liquor, Sale of.  No person shall sell,
furnish, serve or give away any intoxicating liquor in any dancing academy or in
any room or place connected with or used in connection with any such dancing
academy or at any place upon the same premises or within the same enclosure in
which such dancing academy is situated while dancing or dancing instruction is
being carried on.	(h)	Invitations  – Writing False Names.  No person shall
write upon an invitation a false name or any name other than the true name of
the persons accompanying the holder of any invitation as provided in this
section.	(i)	Illumination.  No permittee or his employees shall hold or conduct
any dance or instruction in dancing in any dancing academy after sunset unless
the room or hall in which the dance or instruction in dancing is held is well
lighted at all times. The intensity of such lighting shall not be less than a
minimum of one foot candle at a plane three feet above the floor at all points
on such floor	(j)	Shutting Off Light.  No person shall shut or turn off the
lights or lighting or reduce the intensity below the minimum in Subsection (i).
