                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

RUMMAGE SALE. (§ 103.307)

  RUMMAGE SALE.	(a)	Definitions.  As used in this article:	1.	“RUMMAGE
SALE” means any charitable, religious, eleemosynary, fraternal, benevolent,
civic, or other nonprofit organization or any individual purporting to act on
behalf of such an organization which gathers, collects, sells or offers for sale
to the public any secondhand property or junk, including reclaimed or salvaged
goods, for the real or purported purpose of devoting the proceeds to charitable,
religious, fraternal, benevolent, civic or other nonprofit uses. The term
includes occasional or temporary sales, as well as continued or permanent
activities at a fixed place of business.	2.	“DEPARTMENT” shall mean the Los
Angeles Police Department.  (Added by Ord. No. 173,283, Eff. 6/26/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)	(b)	Permit Required.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,283, Eff. 6/26/00,
Oper. 7/1/00.)  No person shall conduct or advertise a rummage sale open to the
public without a permit therefor. Issuance of annual permits shall be under the
jurisdiction of the Board of Police Commissioners. The Department may permit,
without fee, the holding of three-day rummage sales by applicants qualified to
receive an Information Card pursuant to Section 44.03 hereof.	(c)	Advertising
– Restrictions.  No permittee shall advertise any goods for sale which are
not actually for sale at the premises at the time the advertisement is inserted
in the newspaper or medium.	Within 24 hours after any goods advertised for sale
are sold, the permittee shall withdraw or cancel such
advertisement.	(d)	Hold-Order by Police.  A police officer may place a
hold-order upon any property acquired by the permittee in the course of his
business for a period of 90 days, and upon release of such property may require
the permittee to keep a record of the disposition of such property. It shall be
unlawful for any person to dispose of any property contrary to any hold-order
issued by a police officer.	(e)	Investigation.  (Title and Subsec. Amended by
Ord. No. 173,283, Eff. 6/26/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  Each application for a permit
as provided for in this section shall be transmitted to the Department for
investigation and report within 10 days after receipt of the application. If the
Department fails to report upon the application within 10 days it shall be
deemed that said Department has no objection to the issuance of the permit. The
report of the Department shall include a finding as to whether there is
reasonable cause to believe that the profits of the proposed rummage sale will
be devoted to religious, benevolent, fraternal, educational, civic or other
nonprofit purposes.	(f)	Board Finding – Issuance of Permit.  If the Board
finds that the proceeds from the operation of the rummage sale are to be used
for religious, benevolent, fraternal, educational, civic, or other nonprofit
purposes, the Board may issue a permit to conduct a rummage sale.
