                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

FIGURE STUDIOS. (§ 103.213)

  FIGURE STUDIOS.
	(Added by Ord. No. 121,058, Eff. 2/15/62.)	(a)	Purpose.  The purpose of this
section is to provide for the regulation in accordance with the public interest
of the operation within the City of studios as defined in this section, wherein
bona fide artists and art students may practice and develop their talents in
portraying the human form, subject to such controls as will prevent the
operation of such studios as places which appeal  primarily to the purient
interests of members of the public.	(b)	Definitions.  As used in this article,
the following words shall mean:	1.	“Studio.”	(i)	Any premises on which there
is conducted the business of furnishing models who pose for the purpose of being
sketched, painted, drawn, sculptured, photographed or otherwise similarly
depicted in the nude by persons who pay a fee, or other consideration or
compensation, or a gratuity, for the right or opportunity so to depict the
model, or for admission to, or for permission to remain upon, or as a condition
of remaining upon the premises.	(ii)	Any premises where there is conducted the
business of furnishing or providing or procuring for a fee or other
consideration or compensation or gratuity, models to be sketched, painted,
drawn, sculptured, photographed or otherwise similarly depicted in the
nude.	2.	“Model.”  Any person, male or female, who poses to be sketched,
painted, drawn, sculptured, photographed or otherwise similarly
depicted.	3.	“Nude” shall include:	(i)	Completely without
clothing.	(ii)	With any pubic area exposed, or with the pubic area covered in
such a manner that the private parts are visible or the form thereof
discernible.	(iii)	With the breasts exposed by a female so that the nipples
thereof are exposed.	(c)	Permit Required. (Amended by Ord. No. 134,704, Eff.
8/6/67.)	1.	No person shall operate a studio without first obtaining a permit
from the Board. No permit shall be issued except upon a finding by the Board
that the studio is proposed to be operated for the purpose of providing
facilities for use by persons pursuing a course of study including the artists
portrayal of the nude human form, and by persons who engage in artistic
portrayal of the nude human form, and by persons who engage in artistic
portrayal as a means of livelihood.	2.	An applicant for a studio permit shall
file a verified application therefor with the Board on such forms and containing
such information as the Board may require.	3.	No studio permit shall be issued
to any person under 18 years of age, nor to a corporation, any of whose officers
are under 18 years of age. (Amended by Ord. No. 144,116, Eff.
12/31/72.)	EXCEPTIONS:	(i)	No permit shall be required for any studio operated
by any public junior college, state college, The University of California or any
governmental agency.	(ii)	An exemption from the requirement that a permit be
obtained may be granted for any studio upon a showing satisfactory to the Board
that the applicant for such permit has met the requirements established in
Division 21 of the Education Code for the issuance or conferring of, and is in
fact authorized thereunder to issue and confer a diploma or honorary
diploma.	(iii)	An exemption from the requirement that a permit be obtained may
be granted for any studio upon a showing satisfactory to the Board that the
applicant therefor is a tax exempt, non-profit corporation devoted to the
development of art and its appreciation.	(d)	Required Revocation or
Denial.	1.	In addition to the grounds for permissive denial or revocation stated
in this article, the Board shall refuse to issue, or shall revoke, a permit
required or issued under the provisions of this section upon a finding that the
applicant or permittee is not of good moral character. Anyone convicted of a
morals offense shall be deemed not to be of good moral character for the
purposes of this section.	2.	The Board shall also revoke a permit issued under
the provisions of this section upon a finding that a model under 18 years of age
was permitted or allowed to pose in the nude on the premises, or that a person
under 18 years of age or persons other than those described in the first
paragraph of subsection (c) hereof were admitted to any part of the premises in
which a model was posing in the nude. (Amended by Ord. No. 144,116, Eff.
12/31/72.)
