                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

HOSTESS DANCE HALL. (§ 103.106.1)

  HOSTESS DANCE HALL.
	(Added by Ord. No. 141,580, Eff. 4/2/71.)	(a)	Defined.  As used in this
article, “Hostess Dance Hall” shall mean any dance hall or place conducting
public dances where partners are provided for dancing or social contacts by
those conducting, managing, maintaining or operating such public dances for
patrons or guests and for which such patrons or guests pay a fee or other
consideration.	(b)	Permit Required.  No person shall conduct, manage, maintain
or operate a Hostess Dance Hall without a written permit from the
Board.	(c)	Floor Space.  No permit shall be issued for the conduct of any
Hostess Dance Hall having less than 400 square feet of contiguous area set aside
and reserved exclusively for dancing, such area to be exclusive of hallway
space.	(d)	Hours of Operation.  No Hostess Dance Hall shall operate between the
hours of 2:00 o’clock A.M. and 6:00 o’clock A.M. of any day.	(e)	Alcoholic
Beverages – Prohibited.  No permit shall be issued at any establishment that
serves or offers for sale any alcoholic beverages.	(f)	Possession of Alcoholic
Beverages Prohibited.  No person shall possess an alcoholic beverage in or on
the premises of a Hostess Dance Hall.	(g)	Employees – Hostess Dancers.  No
person under the age of 18 years shall be employed as a dancer, hostess dancer
or instructor. (Amended by Ord. No. 144,116, Eff. 12/31/72.)	(h)	Illumination. 
The illumination shall conform with the provisions of Section 41.48 of the Los
Angeles Municipal Code.	(i)	Public Hearings.  The Board may require a public
hearing prior to taking action on an application for a permit pursuant to this
section.  The applicant shall cause to be published a notice of public hearing
two times at intervals of not less than 5 days within the 21-day period
following the filing of an application, in a newspaper of general circulation in
the district where the business is to be located.  Furthermore, the Board may
give notice by mail to all property owners within three hundred feet of the
proposed business.  The Board shall cause a suitable public notice to be posted
at the location where the business is to be conducted.  The applicant shall
bear all expense involved in mailing, printing, publishing and posting such
notice.  Such public notice shall conform to the rules and regulations adopted
by the Board and shall be designed to inform the public as to the nature of the
business to be engaged in, its location, the names of the applicant or
applicants, the time of the public hearing, and the right of persons objecting
to be heard.  Any interested person may file written protests or objections, or
appear at the hearing. The Board shall give consideration to all such protests
in reaching a decision on such application.	(j)	Prior Operation.  Any business
activity that qualifies under the Hostess Dance Hall Ordinance and is currently
operating with a Dance Hall Cafe Permit at the time this ordinance first becomes
effective shall be exempt from Subsection (i) of said Hostess Dance Hall
Ordinance and shall be exempt from the original permit fee. The annual fee shall
be effective when applicable.
