                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS. (§ 103.102.1)

  ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 176,907, Eff. 9/25/05.)	Any business providing live
entertainment in which an entertainer is present shall conform to all the
applicable requirements previously set forth in this article and shall also
conform to the following additional requirements, whether or not a permit is
required under Section 103.102:	(a)	No person under the age of 18 years shall be
permitted within the premises at any time during the hours of operation, or
under the age of 21 years if the business serves alcohol.	(b)	The business shall
provide separate dressing room facilities for entertainers that are exclusively
dedicated to the entertainers use.	(c)	No portion of the interior of the
premises shall be visible from outside the premises during the hours of
operation.	(d)	The premises shall be equipped with lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate all interior areas of the premises accessible
to patrons with an illumination of not less than 1.5 foot-candles evenly
distributed as measured at floor level, except during performances, at which
times lighting shall be at least 1.0 foot-candles.	(e)	Except for restrooms, the
premises must be configured so that there is an unobstructed view of all
interior areas to which any patron is permitted access. There shall be no
entertainment booths, rooms or cubicles.  Visibility shall not be blocked or
obscured by doors, curtains, drapes, partitions or room dividers of any kind. 
Partitions of any kind, including drapes made of opaque or other material, are
not permitted.  Nothing in this subsection precludes the installation of
columns which are essential for the structural integrity of the
building.	(f)	The business shall provide separate restroom facilities for males
and females.	(g)	No operator, entertainer, employee, agent, or manager of the
business shall knowingly permit any patron to intentionally caress, or fondle
the clothed or unclothed breasts or genitals of any operator, entertainer,
employee, agent, or manager of the business, or knowingly permit any operator,
entertainer, employee or agent to intentionally caress or fondle the unclothed
breasts or genitals of any patron.	(h)	The business shall comply with all
signage, parking, landscaping, and design standards established by the
City.	(i)	The business shall remove all graffiti as soon as it appears, but not
later than 48 hours after it appears, from the premises and property controlled
by the business.	(j)	The business shall, on a daily basis, ensure that all
trash, debris and litter from the premises and property controlled by the
business, as well as from all common and public areas immediately adjacent to
the business, is placed inside appropriate refuse containers.	(k)	The business
shall be carried on in a building, structure and location that complies with the
requirements and meets the standards of the health, fire and safety laws of the
State of California and ordinances of the City of Los Angeles.	(l)	The business
shall be carried on at a location that complies with the zoning standards
established by the City.	(m)	The business shall require its employees to
maintain identification that includes a photograph of the employee in the form
of a valid driver’s license, State identification, or other government issued
identification on the premises while working at the business.	(n)	If the
business serves alcohol, it shall comply with all applicable laws, rules,
regulations and any conditions imposed by the Department of Alcoholic Beverage
Control.	(o)	A manager shall be on duty at all times during hours of operation,
or when patrons are present on the premises.  The manager on duty shall not be
an entertainer.	(p)	No permittee shall knowingly allow or permit any act of
sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, or masturbation to be committed on
the premises, or knowingly permit or allow the premises to be used as a place in
which solicitations for sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, or
masturbation openly occur.	(q)	At least one state licensed and bonded uniformed
security guard shall be employed exclusively to provide security for the
business during business hours.	(r)	There shall be no beds on the premises
accessible to patrons at any time.	(s)	The business shall submit with its
application a floor plan, drawn to scale, showing all interior dimensions of the
premises.  Any change to the floor plan requires the business to submit to the
Board a revised floor plan within seven calendar days of any alteration,
modification or change.	(t)	As used herein, the word “knowingly” does not
remove a permittee’s duties to supervise and take action.  A permittee shall
be responsible for the conduct of all employees and entertainers while they are
on the premises and every act or omission by an employee or entertainer
constituting a violation of any of the provisions of this article shall be
deemed the act or omission of the permittee if such act or omission occurred
with the authorization, knowledge or approval of the permittee, or as a result
of the permittee’s negligent failure to supervise the employee or
entertainer’s conduct or to take action after learning of conduct which
violates this section.
