                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

BILLIARD ROOMS, POOLROOMS, BOWLING ALLEYS. (§ 103.112)

  BILLIARD ROOMS, POOLROOMS, BOWLING ALLEYS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 157,104, Eff.
11/27/82.)	(a)	Definitions.	1.	“BILLIARDS” means any of the several games
played on a table, the surface of which is surrounded by an elastic ledge or
cushions within which balls are impelled by cues, and shall include all forms of
a game known as “pool”.	2.	“BILLIARD ROOM” or “POOLROOM” means any
place where the game of billiards is permitted to be played on one or more
tables designed for that purpose, referred to herein as “billiard tables’ or
“pool tables”.	3.	“BOWLING ALLEY” means a place, usually indoors, where
a game is conducted in which large balls made of composition rubber, plastic or
other material are rolled along an alley or lane toward pins, arranged
symmetrically.	(b)	Permit Required.  No person shall operate or maintain a
billiard room, poolroom or bowling alley open to the public, whether or not
operated for a profit, and to which the public is admitted either with or
without charge, without a written permit from the Board.	(c)	Notice to Public. 
Each applicant for a permit shall cause to be published in a newspaper of
general circulation in the community wherein the activity is to be conducted, a
notice of intent to conduct or maintain a billiard room, poolroom or bowling
alley as defined herein.  The notice shall be published twice at intervals of
not less than three days within a ten-day period following the date of the
filing of the application.	In addition, the Board shall cause a suitable public
notice to be posted at the location where the activity is to be conducted within
five days after the date of the filing of the application for the required
permit.	Both the published and posted notices shall conform to the rules and
regulations adopted by the Board and shall be designed to inform the public as
to the nature of the business to be engaged in, including the location, and the
name or names of the applicant or applicants.  Said notices shall also state
that persons who object to the proposed activity must present their objections
to the Board in writing on or before a final date set forth in the notice, and
that objections submitted subsequent to that date shall not be considered. 
Such final date shall be the date ten days following the first date of
publication of the notice, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays.  The
Board shall review the application for the permit, and, in the event objections
are submitted within said time limit, shall likewise consider the objections and
may withhold issuance of the permit applied for pending a public hearing and
further determination thereon.  In the event the Board conducts a public
hearing with respect to the objections received, the Board shall provide at
least a ten-day notice to the applicant and to the objecting parties, and shall
permit these and every other interested party to be heard thereat.	All expenses
and costs involved in publishing and posting any notices referred to herein
shall be borne by the applicant.	The provisions of this subsection shall not
apply to the issuance of a permit to operate or maintain a billiard room or
poolroom containing no more than three billiard or pool tables, where the
operation and maintenance thereof is not the principal business activity of the
premises where such table or tables are located.	(d)	Minors.  No person under
the age of eighteen (18) years shall enter or remain in, nor shall any person
having charge or control of any billiard room or poolroom permit any person
under the age of eighteen (18) to enter or remain in, any billiard room or
poolroom with two or more pool tables or billiard
tables.	EXCEPTION:	Notwithstanding anything in this section to the contrary,
persons under the age of eighteen (18) years shall be permitted to enter and
remain in family billiard rooms under the provisions of Section 103.112.1 of
this Code.
