                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

CARD CLUB – SOCIAL CARD CLUB – CARD SCHOOL. (§ 103.103)

  CARD CLUB – SOCIAL CARD CLUB – CARD SCHOOL.
	(Added by Ord. No. 111,348, Eff. 7/4/58.)	(a)	Definitions.  As used in this
article:	1.	“CARD CLUB” or “SOCIAL CARD CLUB” means any place
maintained, operated or conducted, for the principal purpose of furnishing a
place where members or guests or other persons play card games, and where:	(i)	A
fee is charged either as membership dues or for admission to such place, or for
the privilege of playing at cards; or	(ii)	Any collection or donation of money
is made or received.	2.	“CARD SCHOOL” means any place maintained, operated
or conducted for the purpose of giving instructions in the playing of card games
of any type.	(b)	Permit Required.  No person shall maintain, operate, conduct
or carry on any card club, social card club or card school without a written
permit from the Board.	(c)	Games Prohibited by Law.  No permit issued by the
Board shall authorize the conduct of any card game which is prohibited by the
Penal Code of California or any ordinance of this City.  Any permit issued in
violation of this subsection shall be void.	(d) Public Hearings.  The Board
shall require a public hearing prior to taking action on an application for a
permit pursuant to this section.  The applicant shall cause to be published a
notice of public hearing two times at intervals of not less than five days,
within the 21-day period following the filing of an application, in a newspaper
of general circulation in the district where the business is to be located. 
The Board shall cause a suitable public notice to be posted at the location
where the business is to be conducted.  The applicant shall bear all expense
involved in printing, publishing and posting such notice.  Such public notice
shall conform to rules and regulations adopted by the Board and shall be
designed to inform the public as to the nature of the business to be engaged in,
its location, the names of the applicant or applicants, the time of the public
hearing and the right of persons objecting to be heard.  Any interested person
may file written protests or objections or appear at the hearing. The Board
shall give consideration to all such protests in reaching a decision on such
application.  (Amended by Ord. No. 137,649, Eff. 1/6/69.)
