                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ESCORT BUREAUS. (§ 103.107)

  ESCORT BUREAUS.
	(Added by Ord. No. 111,348, Eff. 7/4/58.)	(a)	Definition.  As used in this
article:	1.	“ESCORT BUREAU” means any business, agency or person who, for a
fee, commission, hire, reward or profit, furnishes or offers to furnish names of
persons, or who introduces, furnishes or arranges for persons who may accompany
other persons to or about social affairs, entertainments or places of amusement,
or who may consort with others about any place of public resort or within any
private quarters. (Amended by Ord. No. 113,701, Eff. 7/11/59.)	(b)	Permit
Required.  No person shall conduct, manage or carry on any escort bureau
without a written permit from the Board.  No permit under this section shall be
issued to, or in the name of, any organization, group, corporation, partnership
or any entity other than an individual person. The business may be advertised
and carried on by the permittee under a fictitious name in the manner permitted
by law if such fictitious name is first approved by the Board.	(c)	Information
Required.  Each application must state the names and addresses of all escorts
intended to be employed by the applicant.  Permittees shall notify the Board of
any change in personnel in writing within 24 hours of such change.  All such
escorts shall be registered by the Board.  No escort shall be registered unless
the Board is furnished with satisfactory evidence of the good moral character of
such escort.  The registration of any escort may be cancelled for cause by the
Board and thereafter no escort bureau shall employ, engage, or deal with such
escort.	(d)	Change of Location.  A change of location may be endorsed on a
permit by the Board upon written application by the permittee accompanied by the
change of location fee prescribed in Section 103.12.	(e)	Records.  A record
shall be kept by each permittee showing every transaction whereby any person or
name of a person is furnished or arranged for on behalf of any patron or
customer, the date and the approximate hour of the transaction, the name,
address and telephone number of the patron or customer, the name of each escort
involved and such other information as the Board may reasonably required by rule
or regulation.  Such record shall be kept available and open to inspection of
any police officer at any time during business hours and shall be presented
before the Board at any time upon written request therefor. (Amended by Ord. No.
113,701, Eff. 7/11/59.)	(f)	Exception.  Nothing in this section shall apply to
the lawful business of any employment agency licensed under the laws of this
State.	(g)	Persons Under 18 – Employment.  No permittee hereunder shall
employ as an escort any person under 18 years of age.  (Amended by Ord. No.
144,116, Eff. 12/31/72.)	(h)	Furnishing Escorts to Persons Under 18.  No
permittee shall furnish any escort to, or accept employment from any patron,
customer, or person to be escorted who is under 18 years of age, except at the
special instance and request of the parent, guardian or other person in lawful
custody of the person upon whose behalf the escort service is engaged. (Amended
by Ord. No. 144,116, Eff. 12/31/72.)
