                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PAWNBROKER. (§ 103.306)

  PAWNBROKER.
	(Added by Ord. No. 111,348, Eff. 7/4/58.)	(a)	Definitions.  As used in this
article:	1.	“PAWNBROKER” means any person engaged in any one or more of the
following businesses:	(i)	Pawnbroking.	(ii)	Lending money for himself or any
other person upon personal property, pawns or pledges, in the possession of the
lender.	(iii)	Purchasing articles of personal property and reselling or agreeing
to resell such articles, to the venders or assignees at prices agreed upon, at
or before the time of such purchase.	2.	“PAWNSHOP” means any room, store or
place in which the business of a pawnbroker is carried on or
conducted.	(b)	Permit Required.  No person shall engage in, manage, conduct or
carry on the business of a pawnbroker without a written permit from the
Board.	(c)	Change of Location.  A change of location may be endorsed on a
permit by the Board upon written application by the permittee, accompanied by
the change of location fee prescribed in Section 103.12.	(d)	Hold-Order by
Police.  A police officer may place a hold-order upon property acquired by a
pawnbroker in the course of his business, for a period of 30 days, and upon
release of such property may require such pawnbroker to keep a record of the
disposition of such property. It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of
any property contrary to any hold-order issued by a police
officer.	(e)	Auctions.  It shall be unlawful for any person operating,
managing, or carrying on the business of a pawnbroker to permit, allow or
conduct an auction sale as defined in this article on his premises except under
the following conditions:	1.	Notice to Board. The pawnbroker, or the auctioneer
employed by him, in addition to complying with all the provisions of this Code
relating to auction sales shall give ten days notice, in writing, to the Board
prior to commencing such auction sale. Such notice shall contain the location of
the sale, the name of the auctioneer, the date of the sale, the hours during
which the sale shall be conducted, and a complete list of all the property to be
sold at such sale, with detailed identifying description of the property,
including the original loan number.	2.	Unredeemed Pledges. The only property
that may be sold at an auction sale at such location, shall be the unredeemed
pledges in the original condition in which such property was received by the
pawnbroker and as listed in the notice. Each such unredeemed pledge shall have
attached to it a tag describing it, the original loan number, and the number of
the item on the list in the notice. Property not listed in the notice shall not
be sold at such auction sale.	3.	Two-Day Limit. The total time during which a
pawnbroker may conduct auction sales shall not exceed two days in any calendar
month.
