                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SALES – FIRE AND CLOSING OUT. (§ 103.308)

  SALES – FIRE AND CLOSING OUT.	(a)	Definitions.  As used in this
section:	1.	“SALE” means any sale of, or any offer to sell, to the public,
or any group thereof, goods, wares or merchandise on order, in transit or in
stock, in connection with a declared purpose as set forth by advertising that
such sale is anticipatory to or to avoid the termination, liquidation, revision,
windup, discontinuance, removal, dissolution or abandonment of the business or
that portion of the business conducted at any location; and	(Amended by Ord. No.
119,432, Eff. 8/13/61.)  All sales advertised in any manner calculated to
convey to the public the belief that upon the disposal of the goods to be placed
on sale the business or that portion thereof being conducted at any location
will cease, be removed, be interrupted, discontinued or changed; and all sales
advertised to be “Adjuster’s Sale,” “Adjustment Sale,’ “Assignee’s
Sale,” “Bankruptcy Sale,” “Benefit of Administrator’s Sale,”
“Benefit of Creditor’s Sale,” “Benefit of Trustee’s Sale,” “Bought
Out Sale,” “Building Coming Down Sale,” “Buy Out Sale,” “Close
Outs,” “Closing Sale,” Closing Out Sale,” “Creditors’ Committee
Sale,” “Creditors’ Sale,” “Damaged Goods Sale,” “Disposal Sale,”
“End Sale,” “Executors’ Sale,” “Final Days Sale,” Fire Sale,”
“Fixtures for Sale,” “Forced Out Sale,” “Forced Out of Business
Sale,” “Insolvent Sale,” “Insurance Salvage Sale,” Last Days Sale,”
“Lease Expires Sale,” “Lease Expiring Sale,” “Liquidation Sale,”
“Loss of Lease Sale,” “Mortgage Sale,” “Out-selling Sale,”
“Receiver’s Sale,” “Removal Sale,” “Reorganization Sale,”
“Salvage Sale,” “Selling Out Sale,” “Smoke Sale,” “Smoke and Water
Sale,” “Trustee’s Sale,” “Quitting Business Sale,” “Wholesale
Closing Out Sale,” “We Quit Sale,” “We Give Up Sale,” or advertised by
any other expression or characterization similar to any of the foregoing and
calculated to convey a similar meaning; and
	All sales advertised in a manner calculated to indicate that the goods, wares
or merchandise to be sold or any part thereof have been involved in any business
failure or have been derived from a business which has failed, been closed,
discontinued or liquidated; and	All sales accompanied by notices or advertising
indicating that the premises are available for purchase or lease or are
otherwise to be vacated; and	All sales accompanied by advertising indicating a
business emergency or failure affecting the seller or any previous holder of the
goods to be disposed of.	2.	“ADVERTISING,” “ADVERTISEMENT,”
“ADVERTISE,” “PUBLISH,” “PUBLICATION,” means any and all means,
whether oral, written, lettered or printed, used for conveying to the public
notice of the conduct of a sale as defined herein, or notice of intention to
conduct such sale, including but not limited to oral or written announcements by
proclamation or outcry, newspaper advertisement, magazine, advertisement
handbill, written or printed notice, printed display, billboard display, poster,
and radio announcement.	(b)	Permit Required.  No person shall advertise or
conduct any sale of the type herein defined without a written permit from the
Board.	(c)	Application for Permit.  The Board may require the following
information in an application:	1.	Cause of Sale.  A recital of the facts in
regard to the insurance bankruptcy, insolvency, assignment, mortgage,
forecloser, administration, receivership, trusteeship, removal, executorship
removal, or other cause advertised to be the reason for the proposed
sale;	2.	Inventory. (Amended by Ord. No. 119,432, Eff. 8/13/61.)  An inventory
shall be submitted with the application on a form and in a manner prescribed by
the Board which will clearly and readily identify the merchandise which is the
subject of the sale. Special information tags shall be affixed upon such
merchandise by the applicant whenever it is found necessary by the Board for
identification or investigational purposes.	(d)	Investigation. (Amended by Ord.
No. 119,432, Eff. 8/13/61.)  The Board may make an audit or investigation of
the applicant and his affairs in relation to the proposed sale.	The Board may
refuse a permit because of the insufficiency of the information set forth in the
application, but shall grant the applicant permission to file an amended
application.	No permit shall be granted where an applicant has not been in
business and had in his possession the goods, wares and merchandise for 60 days
prior to filing the application except where the merchandise has been purchased
for the express purpose of liquidating the same.	(e)	Conditions of Permit.
(Amended by Ord. No. 119,432, Eff. 8/13/61.)  A permit issued under this
section shall authorize the one type of sale named in the application, at the
place named therein, for a period of not more than 30 calendar days. It shall
only permit the sale of goods listed in said application. Such goods must be
definitely separated from any other goods displayed at or within the store or
place of business. All advertising, signs or notices calling attention to the
sale must be confined to the goods involved in the sale. The Board may renew
such permit for a period of 30 days. The application for renewal shall set forth
a complete list of the goods listed in the original application which are
unsold. Such application shall not include a list of goods, wares or merchandise
not named in the original application.	No sale shall be permitted at any one
location for more than 60 calendar days in any one 12 month period unless there
is proof of a complete change of business and parties of interest.	(f)	Addition
of Goods.  Permits shall be valid only for the advertising representation and
sale of the particular goods, wares or merchandise described in the original
application. Any renewal, replenishment or substitution of such goods, wares or
merchandise, shall render such permit void. No person in contemplation of
conducting any such sale or special sale, or during the continuance of such
sale, shall order any goods, wares or merchandise for the purpose of selling
them at such sale. Any unusual purchase or additions to the stock of such goods,
wares or merchandise, within 60 days before the filing of such application for a
permit to conduct such a sale shall be presumptive evidence that such purchase
or additions were made in contemplation of such sale and for the purpose of
selling them at such sale.	Each sale of goods, wares or merchandise not
inventoried and described in the original application shall constitute a
separate offense under this section.	(g)	Loss of Identity.  A removal of any
goods, wares or merchandise inventoried and described in the original
application from the place of sale mentioned in such application shall cause
such goods to lose their identity as the stock of any of the sales defined
herein. No permits will be issued for the conducting of a sale of any such
goods, wares or merchandise in such manner as to identify them with the store,
store name, store owner or location referred to in the original
application.	(h)	Enforcement.  Upon commencement and throughout the duration of
any sale, as herein defined, the permit issued by the Board shall be prominently
displayed near the entrance to the premises. A duplicate original of the
application and stock list pursuant to which such permit was issued, shall at
all times be available to police officers and representatives of the Board. The
permittee shall permit police officers and representatives of the Board to
examine all merchandise in the premises for comparison with such stock
list.	(i)	Exemptions.  This section shall not apply to or affect the following
persons:	1.	Court Orders. Persons acting pursuant to an order or process of a
court of competent jurisdiction;	2.	Public Officers. Persons acting in
accordance with their powers and duties as public officers such as sheriffs and
marshals;	3.	Auctioneer Permittees. Duly licensed auctioneers, selling at
auction;	4.	Publishers. Any publisher of a newspaper, magazine or other
publication, who publishes any such advertisement in good faith, without
knowledge of its false, deceptive, or misleading character or without knowledge
that the provisions of this section have not been complied
with.	(j)	Notwithstanding any other provision of this article to the contrary,
the permit shall become immediately null and void and without force or effect
upon failure to comply with any applicable provision of this section; or upon
the using or providing of any false or misleading information in the
application, inventory or advertising; or if any provisions of this article are
violated; or if the advertising has been changed from that originally submitted
and is false or misleading. (Added by Ord. No. 119,432, Eff. 8/13/61.)
