                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

BATHS. (§ 103.205.2)

  BATHS.
	(Added by Ord. No. 148,154, Eff. 4/17/76. )	(a)	Definitions.  The words and
phrases defined in Section 103.205 (a) of this Code, shall have the same
meanings when used in this section. In addition thereto, the following words and
phrases shall have the following meanings when used in this section.	(1)	As used
herein, “Bath” means the activity of providing facilities for: steam baths;
electric light bath; electric tub baths; shower baths; sponge bath; sun bath;
mineral bath; Russian, Swedish or Turkish bath; public bathing, which has in
connection therewith, a steam room, dry hot room, plunge, shower bath or
sleeping accommodations; hydro-therapeutic pool, which is designed for whole or
partial immersion of the human body for recreation or therapeutic use by one or
more persons at a time and which is either drained or is not drained, cleaned,
or refilled for each user, and may include but not be limited to hydrojet
circulation, hot water, cold water, mineral water, oil, air induction bubbles or
any combination thereof; therapeutic pools which may include whirlpools, hot
tubs, baths, and cold water plunges; or any other type bath for treating the
human body.  (Amended by Ord. No. 159,306, Eff. 9/27/84.)	(b)	Bath Business –
Permit Required.  No person shall engage in, manage, conduct or operate a
“Bath” business without a written permit from the Board.	(1)	Exemptions. 
This section shall not apply to any treatment administered in good faith in the
course of any healing art or profession by any person licensed or permitted to
practice any such art or profession under the provisions of the Business and
Professions Code of California or any other law of this state.	(c)	Employees. 
No person shall be permitted to work in a “Bath” business in any capacity
that would require such person to touch the body of another without such person
being previously authorized to do so by the Board consistent with provisions of
Section 103.205.1 of this ordinance. No person under eighteen (18) years of age
shall be permitted to work on the premises.	(d)	Persons Under Eighteen –
Admission.  No person under eighteen (18) years of age shall be allowed on the
premises of a “Bath” business, unless accompanied by one of his parents or
guardians.
