                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PARADES AND ASSEMBLIES. (§ 103.111)

  PARADES AND ASSEMBLIES.
	(Title and Section amended by Ord. No. 176,617, Eff. 6/6/05.)	(a)	Purpose. 
This Section establishes the standards and procedures for the issuance of
permits for special events consisting of parades and assemblies in the City of
Los Angeles.  The purpose of this Section is to preserve and protect the public
health and safety of the citizens of Los Angeles, the rights of individuals to
engage in expressive activity protected under the First Amendment, and to
provide for the recovery of costs to the City directly flowing from these
events.  This Section shall only apply to events that fall within the
definition of “Parade” or “Assembly,” as set forth below.  All other
street closures, including Athletic Events (as that term is defined in this
Section), shall be governed by the procedures set forth in Los Angeles Municipal
Code Section 41.20.	(b)	Definitions.  As used in this Article:	“ASSEMBLY”
means any stationary formation, assembly, or gathering for the purpose of
Expressive Activity upon any public street, sidewalk, alley, or other public
place which does not comply with normal or usual traffic regulations or
controls.  This term does not include block parties, street festivals,
carnivals or other Street Closures, as that term is defined in this
Section.	“ATHLETIC EVENT” means an event, not involving as a primary
component, “Expressive Activity,” as that term is defined in this Section,
in which a group of people collectively engage in a sport or form of physical
exercise, including but not limited to jogging, bicycling, walking, roller
skating, or running, upon any public street, sidewalk, alley or other public
place, which does not comply with normal and usual traffic regulations and
controls.	“BOARD” means the Board of Police Commissioners for the City of
Los Angeles.	“DEPARTMENT” means the Los Angeles Police
Department.	“DESIGNATED POLICE COMMISSIONER” means the Board Commissioner
designated by the President of the Board to act on behalf of the Board to grant
or deny event permits.	“EVENT” means a parade or assembly, or both, which is
the subject of a permit application under this section.	“EXPRESSIVE
ACTIVITY” includes conduct, the sole or principal object of which is the
expression, dissemination or communication by verbal, visual, literary or
auditory means of opinions, views, or ideas.  It includes public oratory and
the distribution of literature.	“PARADE” means any march or procession,
other than an Athletic Event, consisting of persons, animals or vehicles, or
combination thereof, upon any public street, sidewalk, alley or other public
place, which does not comply with normal or usual traffic regulations or
controls.  This term does not include Street Closures, as that term is defined
in this Section, funeral processions, or official governmental
motorcades.	“PERMIT APPLICATION FEE” means a nonrefundable fee to be paid by
the applicant at the time the permit application is submitted to the
Department.  The amount of the fee will be set from time to time by resolution
of the City Council.  The fee will be used to defray the direct costs of
processing and investigating the Event application.	“STREET CLOSURE” means
the closure of streets by the Department of Public Works for an Athletic Event
or other activity pursuant to Section 41.20 of this Code.	(c)	Permit Required. 
No person shall conduct, manage or sponsor any Parade or Assembly without a
written permit from the Board.  No person shall participate in any Parade or
Assembly with the knowledge that its sponsor has not been issued the required
permit.	(d)	Interference with Event.  No person shall knowingly join or
participate in any Parade or Assembly conducted under permit from the Board in
violation of any of the terms of the permit, or knowingly join or participate in
any permitted Parade or Assembly without the consent and over the objection of
the permittee, nor in any manner interfere with the progress or orderly conduct
of a permitted Parade or Assembly.	(e)	Application for Permit.	1.	Submission of
Application.	A.	Written applications for permits should be submitted to the
Department at least 40 days prior to the date of the requested Event.  However,
all applications for permits shall be acted upon by the Department and the Board
so long as they are received by the Department not less than five days before
the date of the requested Event.  The five-day time limitation shall be waived
by the Designated Police Commissioner if the occurrence giving rise to the
permit application did not reasonably allow the applicant time to file within
the time prescribed, and imposition of the time limitation would place an
unreasonable restriction on the right to free speech.	B.	An application will be
accepted by the Department only if it is fully completed, legible, and is
accompanied by a receipt from the Office of Finance of payment of the Permit
Application Fee as required pursuant to Subdivision (e)(2)C.
below.	C.	Applications shall be submitted no more than six months before the
Event date.	2.	Form of Application.	A.	An application for a permit shall be made
on a form provided by the Department and shall contain the following: 	(1)	the
name, address, and telephone number of the applicant;	(2)	the name, address, and
telephone number of the sponsoring organization;	(3)	the specific date(s) of the
Event, including date(s) for set-up and tear down;	(4)	the starting and ending
times;	(5)	the exact location of the assembly and disbanding areas, indicating
the particular portion of a street, corner of an intersection, portion of
private property or park area, etc., if appropriate; 	(6)	the exact route and
direction of travel of the Parade;	(7)	the portion of the street needed for the
Event; 	(8)	the total number and type of bands, marching units, vehicles,
animals, structures, or other elements/props which will be used in the
Event;	(9)	the estimated number of participants and spectators expected at the
Event;	(10)	a description of any sound amplification equipment which will be
used in the Event;	(11)	the number of floats, if any, which will be used in the
Parade and their size, type and method of power; 	(12)	the cleanup activities
planned; and	(13)	the parking contingencies planned.	B.	 If the Event is
designed to be held by and on behalf of or for any organization other than the
applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a communication in writing
from the organization authorizing the applicant to apply for such permit on its
behalf.	C.	The application for a permit shall be accompanied by a receipt from
the Office of Finance evidencing payment of the requisite Permit Application
Fee.	(f)	Application Processing Procedure.	1.	Timing of Action on Permit.  The
Board shall approve or deny an application as set forth in this subsection no
later than the earliest date of the following: (i) 15 days after the complete
application and receipt for payment of the Permit Application Fee were received
by the Department, or (ii) three business days prior to the date of the
scheduled Event; provided however that in the event that the Designated Police
Commissioner waives the five-day notice requirement as set forth in Subsection
(e), the application shall be approved or denied no later than 24 hours prior to
the date of the scheduled Event.	2.	Processing by the Department.	A.	Written
Report.  Applications for permits shall be filed directly with the Department.
The Department shall investigate the application and prepare a written report,
including recommendations of whether the permit should be granted or denied and
any conditions which should be imposed.	B.	Notification of Affected Agencies. 
Upon receipt of the complete application and Permit Application Fee receipt, the
Department shall notify and transmit a copy of the application to the
following:	(1)	Chief Engineer of the Fire Department;	(2)	General Manager of the
Department of Transportation;	(3)	General Manager of the Department of General
Services;	(4)	Director of the Bureau of Street Services and Director of the
Bureau of Sanitation, Department of Public Works;	(5)	CalTrans (where
appropriate);	(6)	General Manager of the Metropolitan Transit
Authority;	(7)	California Highway Patrol, only if a state highway is
involved;	(8)	Entertainment Industry Development Corporation (EIDC);	(9)	General
Manager of the County of Los Angeles Department of Beaches and Harbors (where
appropriate);	(10)	General Manager of the Los Angeles City Department of
Recreation and Parks (where appropriate);	(11)	The Mayor’s Office of Special
Events; and	(12)	The Office of the Council Member of the affected Council
District.	This notification and transmittal shall be for the purpose of
identifying any logistical or public safety issues surrounding the granting of
the particular application, and to enable the Department of Transportation and
the Bureau of Street Services to determine the traffic control and clean-up
services that will be required and the costs to be paid by the applicant for
those services.	Immediately upon the granting of a permit, the Board shall
transmit a copy thereof to each of the above agencies.	3.	Action on
Application.	A.	Recommendations of Department.	(1)	If the recommendation of the
Department is to approve the application without conditions or with conditions
to which the applicant agrees, the Executive Director of the Board, on behalf of
the Board, shall approve the permit. 	(2)	If the recommendation of the
Department is to approve the application with conditions to which the applicant
disagrees, the contested conditions shall be set forth in a report.  The
application, report, and recommendations shall be referred to the Designated
Police Commissioner and a copy shall be provided to the applicant.	(3)	If the
recommendation of the Department is to deny the permit, the grounds for the
recommendation shall be set forth in a report.  The application, report, and
recommendations shall be referred to the Designated Police Commissioner and a
copy shall be provided to the applicant.	(4)	If the Department simultaneously
receives two or more applications from applicants requesting the same date,
time, and location for the same or similar events, the Department will complete
the processing on the applications and forward them to the Designated Police
Commissioner for action on each application.	B.	Action by the Designated Police
Commissioner.  If an application is referred to the Designated Police
Commissioner, the Designated Police Commissioner shall act to grant or deny the
application in compliance with Subdivision (f)(1).  The applicant shall be
notified in writing of the decision by the Designated Police Commissioner by
facsimile or overnight courier and shall be informed that the applicant has the
right to appeal the decision as set forth in Subsection (j) below.	(g)	Issuance
of the Permit.  The Board shall issue a permit following:	1.	Final action on
the permit pursuant to Subsection (f);	2.	An agreement by the applicant or
sponsor in writing to comply with any conditions imposed on the Event by the
permit, including payment of traffic control and clean-up costs;
and	3.	Compliance with all of the applicable requirements of Subsection (h)
below.	(h)	Conditions to Issuance of Permit.  The Board may condition the
issuance of a permit by imposing reasonable requirements concerning the time,
place, and manner of the Event, as necessary to protect the safety of all
persons and property, provided that the conditions shall not unreasonably
restrict the right of free speech.  These conditions include, but are not
limited to:	1.	Alteration of the date or time of the Event proposed on the
application;	2.	Alteration of the location of the Assembly, route of the Parade,
and/or the area and manner of assembling and disbanding of the
Parade;	3.	Accommodation of pedestrian or vehicular traffic, including
restricting the Event to only a portion of a street or highway;	4.	Compliance
with all ordinances or laws and obtaining all legally required permits or
licenses;	5.	Requirements for the training and use of volunteers, monitors, or
parade officials;	6.	Restrictions on the number and type of vehicles, animals,
or structures at the Event, and prior inspection and approval of floats,
structures, and decorated vehicles for fire safety by the Los Angeles Fire
Department;	7.	Requirements for the use of garbage containers, cleanup, and
restoration of City property;	8.	Requirements for providing notice of permit
conditions to volunteers, monitors, parade officials, and event
participants;	9.	Requirements for providing a certain specified number of parade
officials or volunteers to ensure a safe and expeditious
parade;	10.	Requirements for the provision of adequate first aid and sanitary
facilities;	11.	Requirements for the use of amplification devices or amplified
sound; and	12.	Requirements to provide proof of automobile insurance (where the
Event involves the operating of vehicles, including motorized floats, upon the
streets or highways).	(i)	Grounds for Denial of Application or Revocation of a
Permit.	1.	The Board, through either the Executive Director or the Designated
Police Commissioner, shall approve an application for a permit unless it
determines from a consideration of the application or other pertinent
information, the existence of any of the following, any of which shall also be
justification for the Board to revoke a previously issued permit:	A.	Information
contained in the application, or supplementary information requested from the
applicant, is false in any material detail;	B.	The applicant failed to provide a
complete application after being notified of the requirement of producing
additional information or documents;	C.	The Event will interfere with another
Event, street closure or other activity for which a permit has previously been
granted;	D.	The concentration of persons, animals and/or vehicles at the site of
the Event, or at the assembly and disbanding areas, will prevent proper police,
fire, ambulance, or other public services to areas contiguous to the
Event;	E.	The time, route or size of the Event will disrupt to an unreasonable
extent the safe and expeditious movement of traffic contiguous to the event site
or route, or unreasonably disrupt the use of a street or highway when it is
usually subject to great traffic congestion;	F.	The size or duration of the
Event will require the diversion of so great a number of police officers of the
City that providing the minimum level of police services to other areas of the
City is jeopardized.  Nothing in this paragraph authorizes denial of a permit
because of the need to protect Event participants from the conduct of
others;	G.	The Event will substantially interfere with any construction or
maintenance work scheduled to take place upon or along the affected City streets
or highways, or a previously granted encroachment permit; 	H.	The parade will
not move from its point of origin to its point of termination in five hours or
less;	I.	The length of the parade route exceeds 3 miles from its point of origin
to its point of termination; or	J.	The applicant fails to conduct the Event in
accordance with the information contained in the permit application, or any
terms and conditions imposed on the issued permit.	2.	When the grounds for
denial of the application for a permit specified in Subdivision (i)1. can be
corrected by altering the time, place and/or manner of the Event as authorized
by Subsection (h), the Board shall, instead of denying the application,
conditionally approve the application provided the applicant accepts such
conditions for permit issuance.  The conditions imposed shall provide for only
such modifications of the applicant’s proposed Event as are necessary to
achieve compliance with this subsection.	(j)	Appeal Procedure.	1.	Right to
Appeal.  The applicant shall have the right to appeal any permit conditions
imposed upon an Event or the denial of a permit application.  The applicant
shall also have the right to appeal the amount of traffic control fees or
clean-up deposits imposed pursuant to subsection (l).	2.	Notice of Appeal.  A
notice of appeal stating the grounds for the appeal shall be filed with the
Board no later than three days after delivery of the notice of the denial of the
application or notice of the contested/disputed permit conditions.	3.	Hearing by
the Board.	A.	If an applicant files a notice of appeal, the Board shall conduct
a hearing on the appeal at the next scheduled meeting of the Board.  The Board
shall render its decision at the hearing unless the permit applicant or sponsor
agrees to a continuance.  The decision of the Board is final.	B.	If the date of
the next scheduled meeting of the Board following the receipt of a notice of
appeal is later than two business days before the date of the scheduled Event,
the Board shall convene a special meeting within 24 hours of the delivery of the
notice of appeal.  Notice of the time and place of said special meeting shall
be given to all parties at least 24 hours prior to said hearing.  The Board
shall render its decision at the hearing unless the permit applicant or sponsor
agrees to a continuance.  The decision of the Board is final.	C.	No Board
member who did not hear the evidence or who was not read or heard the record or
proceedings shall vote on the decision.	(k)	Contents of Permit.  In each
permit, the Board shall prescribe:	1.	The assembly area and time
therefor:	2.	The start time;	3.	The minimum and maximum speeds for the
Parade;	4.	The exact route of the Parade;	5.	What portions of streets to be
traversed may be occupied by the Event;	6.	The maximum number of units and the
maximum and minimum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
Parade;	7.	The maximum length of the Parade in miles or fractions
thereof;	8.	The disbanding area and disbanding time;	9.	The number of persons
required to officiate and/or monitor the Event;	10.	The number and type of
vehicles, if any;	11.	The material and maximum size of any sign, banner, placard
or carrying device therefor; and	12.	All conditions imposed upon the Event
pursuant to Subsection (h) of this Section.	 (l)	Fees and
Indemnification.	1.	Each applicant, and any other person, organization, firm or
corporation on whose behalf the application is made, shall be required to agree
in writing to jointly and separately indemnify, protect and defend and hold
harmless the City of Los Angeles, its officers and employees against all claims,
damages, expenses, loss or liability of any kind or nature whatsoever arising
out of, or resulting from, the alleged acts or omissions of the permittee, its
officers, agents or employees in connection with the Parade or
Assembly.	2.	Traffic Control Costs.	A.	Prepayment of Costs.  Upon approval by
the Board of a permit for a Parade or Assembly but prior to the date of the
scheduled Event, the Department of Transportation, through the Bureau of Street
Services, shall provide the applicant with a statement of the estimated cost of
providing traffic management at the Event.  The applicant/sponsor shall be
required to pay the traffic control costs either prior to the date of the Event
or within 15 days thereafter.  Traffic control consists of clearing the
parade/assembly route of unauthorized vehicles, posting any parking restrictions
necessary for the Event, diverting traffic around the Event, and directing
pedestrian and vehicular traffic along the route of a parade.	B.	Computing
Traffic Control Costs.  The traffic control costs shall be computed by
determining the number of LADOT personnel who will be required for traffic
control beyond that which would otherwise be required at that time, multiplied
by the number of hours for which such additional service is rendered at the rate
of the City’s full cost of providing officers on an hourly basis as
established by the Department of Transportation.	C.	Refunds or Additional
Charges.  If the actual cost for traffic control on the date of the Event is
less than the estimated cost pursuant to Subdivision (l)2.A. above, the
applicant/ sponsor will be refunded the difference by the City.  If more
traffic officers’ hours are required than originally charged, the
applicant/sponsor will be billed the additional costs.	D.	Traffic control costs
shall not be assessed if the size of the parade/assembly can be controlled by 5
or fewer traffic officers over a two-hour period, as determined by
LADOT.	3.	Clean-up Deposit.	A.	The applicant/sponsor of an Event involving
horses or other large animals, the sale of food or beverages, or the erection of
any structure shall be required to provide a clean-up deposit prior to the date
of the Event, paid to the Department of Public Works, Bureau of Street
Services.  The clean-up deposit shall be in the amount established in a cleanup
fee schedule adopted by the City Council.	B.	The clean-up deposit shall be
returned after the Event if the area used for the Event has been cleaned and
restored to the same condition as existed prior to the Event, as determined by a
representative of the Department of Public Works, Bureau of Street
Services.	C.	If the property used for the Event has not been cleaned or
restored, the permittee shall be billed for the actual cost of the clean-up and
restoration by the Office of Finance, and the clean-up deposit or portion
thereof shall be applied toward the payment of the bill.	D.	If the permittee
disputes the bill, he or she may appeal to the Board of Public Works within 5
days after receipt of the bill.  Should there be any unexpended balance on the
deposit after completion of the work, this balance shall be promptly refunded to
the permittee.  Should the amount of the bill exceed the clean-up deposit, the
difference shall become due and payable to the City upon the applicant’s
receipt of the bill.	4.	Waiver of Fees for Traffic Control and Clean-up
Services.  Upon receipt of an application therefor to the Bureau of Street
Services One Stop Special Events Permit Office, Traffic Control and Clean-up
Services costs shall be waived for non-commercial Parades and Assemblies, so
long as the particular event would qualify for a waiver applying all of the
requirements, conditions and criteria set forth in Municipal Code Sections 41.20
and 41.20.1.  Applications for such waivers shall be processed as set forth in
Municipal Code Sections 41.20 and 41.20.1.	(m)	Waiver.  Except as specifically
set forth herein, no requirements of this Section shall be
waived.	(n)	Violation.  Willful violation of any of the provisions of this
Section, or the terms or conditions of an Event permit by the permittee or any
participant in said Event is a misdemeanor.	(o)	Severability.  If any
subsection, subdivision. sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this section,
or the application thereof to any person, is for any reason held to be invalid
or unconstitutional by the decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, such
decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this Section
or its application to other persons.  The City Council hereby declares that it
would have adopted this section and each subsection, subdivision, sentence,
clause, phrase or portion thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more
subsections, subdivisions, sentences, clauses, phrases, or portions, or the
application thereof to any person, be declared invalid or unconstitutional.
