                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

COMMERCIAL UNSECURED BUILDINGS. (§ 103.206.2)

  COMMERCIAL UNSECURED BUILDINGS.
	(Added by Ord. No. 170,801, Eff. 1/21/96.)  (Sec. No. Corrected by Ord. No.
170,910, Eff. 3/22/96.)	A.	As used in this section, the following definition
shall apply:	Secured Building Fee.   A fee imposed pursuant to this section to
recover the costs of securing a building.	B.	Every person who has ownership or
control of any business operated in any commercial building shall, upon the
request of a member of the Los Angeles Police or Fire Department, provide the
names and non-business telephone numbers of at least two persons who shall have
authority to take control of and secure the property in the event the property
is found in an unoccupied and unsecured condition.  Such information shall be
provided, received and maintained in confidence for the exclusive use by those
departments to satisfy the purposes of this section.  Information received by
one department shall be transferred to the other department.	C.	Any unoccupied
and unsecured commercial building, for which the information required in
Subsection A has been obtained and to which police have responded after
actuation of a burglary alarm or other call for police service, is declared to
be a public nuisance.  Upon discovery after such response the Los Angeles
Police Department may cause telephonic notice to be given to one or both of the
persons whose name and non-business telephone numbers have been provided by the
owner or person having control of the business pursuant to the provisions of
Subsection A of this section.  The telephonic notice provided for herein shall
include the address of the building and the nature of the unsecured condition,
shall cite this code section, and shall state that unless a representative of
the owner or person having control thereof secures the building within one hour
of the notice the City will secure the building and charge the owner of the
business for the cost thereof.	D.	If telephonic contact with either of the
persons identified pursuant to Subsection A of this section cannot be made
within one hour of the initial effort to make contact after response to a
burglar alarm or if notice is given in accordance with the provisions of
Subsection C of this section and the owner or the owners representative does not
secure the building within one hour of such notice, the City or its contractor
may enter upon the property and secure the building.	E.	The Department shall
give the owner of the business  written notice of any action to secure any
building in accordance with Subsection D of this section.  Such notice shall be
in a form prescribed by the Board.	F.	All expenses incurred by the City pursuant
to Subsection D of this section shall become an indebtedness of the owner of the
business operated within the building.	G.	Duties of the Department.	1.	The
Department shall develop written procedures to provide for training and the
uniform implementation of this section.	2.	The Department shall develop any form
or document necessary to carry out the purposes of this section.	3.	The
Department shall develop an administrative appeal hearing procedure to determine
whether the indebtedness incurred under this section was assessed to the proper
person or was properly assessed.	H.	Duties of the Office of Finance.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 173,300, Eff. 6/30/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)	1.	The Office of Finance shall
bill the owner of the business for any indebtedness incurred under this section
as reported by the Department.  The bill shall be due and payable to the Office
of Finance within fifteen days of the billing date.	2.	If the Office of Finance
determines for any billing that a discrepancy exists between the service fee
paid and the amount billed which results in an underpayment or overpayment in an
amount of three dollars or less, the Office of Finance may accept and record the
billing as paid in full without other notification to the person billed.	3.	If
the Office of Finance determines that any amount of the service fee billed
hereunder cannot be collected or that efforts to collect would be
disproportionately costly in relation to the probable outcome of the collection
efforts, the Office of Finance may prepare a report setting forth the findings
and reasons therefor and request that the Board of Review authorize the removal
of any unpaid amount from the active accounts receivable of the Department
pursuant to Section 11.04 of this Code.  Upon unanimous approval of the Board
of  Review, the Office of Finance may remove from the active accounts
receivable any service fee owing.  If the Board of Review does not unanimously
approve the findings, the matter shall be returned to the Office of Finance. 
Any removal, however, shall not preclude the Office of Finance from collecting 
or attempting to collect any such sum that later proves to be collectible as
provided by Section 11.04.	4.	At least monthly the Office of Finance shall
report to the Department the outstanding accounts receivable, collections and
write offs of service fees.	5.	Administrative Cost.  The total cost covered in
Paragraph 1 of this subsection shall include, in addition to the cost to perform
the actual work, an amount equal to forty percent of such cost to cover the cost
of the City administering any contract and supervising the work required.
