                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

CARNIVALS. (§ 103.104)

  CARNIVALS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 117,644, Eff. 1/1/61.)	(a)	Definitions.	1.	“Carnival”
shall mean any fair, festival or like activity of a temporary nature having a
concession or concessions.	2.	“Concession” shall mean and include any booth
or stand or any space, court or area at or in which any game or test of skill,
science or amusement is offered and at or in which the public is permitted or
invited to participate for a fee, charge or donation.	3.	“Operator” or
“Conductor” shall mean the operator or conductor of a carnival or
concession, as more particularly set forth in Subsection (b) of Section 21.75 of
this Code.	(b)	Permit Required.	1.	No person shall conduct, operate, maintain or
carry on a carnival without a written permit from the Board unless exempted
under the provisions of Subsection (g) of this section.	2.	The operator or
conductor shall be responsible for filing the application for a police
permit.	3.	The permit shall become immediately null and void and without force
or effect upon failure to comply with any applicable provisions of this section,
or upon the making of a false or misleading application therefor, or upon
violation of the gambling statutes or ordinances of the State of California or
City of Los Angeles, the hearing, suspension or revocation provisions of this
article to the contrary notwithstanding.	4.	The duration of a carnival operating
under fee exempt permit shall not exceed ten calendar days.	(c)	Permit
Application Requirements.	1.	The application shall be filed on a form and in a
manner prescribed by the Board.	2.	The application shall be for a specified time
and for a specified location.	3.	New applications shall be required for any
renewal, change in location, or change in operating time period, and shall be
accompanied by the required fees set forth in Section 103.12.	4.	(Amended by
Ord. No. 173,300, Eff. 6/30/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  The application shall be filed
with the Office of Finance not less than 14 calendar days prior to the first day
of operation of the carnival.  No application shall be accepted by the Office
of Finance which is not filed within the time limit prescribed herein.	5.	A
complete list of the names and a brief description of the method of play for
each game or test of skill, science or amusement shall be attached to the
application.	(d)	No Permit to Minors.  No application shall be accepted from
any person under 18 years of age.  (Amended by Ord. No. 144,116, Eff.
12/31/72.)	(e)	(None)	(f)	Carnival Prohibited on Streets.  No permit shall be
granted to any person to hold a carnival in or upon any of the streets or alleys
belonging to this City.	(g)	Permit Exemptions.  No police permit and no police
permit fee shall be required for any religious, charitable, educational or other
nonprofit benevolent institution to operate or conduct a carnival when the net
proceeds of the carnival are to be used exclusively for religious, charitable,
benevolent, educational, or civic purposes, and the operator or conductor has
applied for and obtained a tax exempt registration certificate pursuant to the
provisions of Section 21.75 of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 143,208, Eff.
5/6/72.)	(h)	Public Hearings.  The Board shall require a public hearing prior
to taking action on an application for a permit to conduct or operate a
carnival. The applicant for such permit shall cause a notice of public hearing
to be published two times at intervals of not less than five days within the
14-day period prior to the first day of operation of the carnival.  Such notice
shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the area where the
carnival is to be located and the applicant shall bear all expenses involved in
such printing and publishing.  The Board shall cause a suitable public notice
to be posted at the location where the carnival is to be conducted at least five
calendar days prior to the first day of the carnival.  All such public notices
shall conform to rules and regulations adopted by the Board and shall be
designed to inform the public of the proposed carnival, its location, the names
of the applicant or applicants, the time of the public hearing and the right of
objecting persons to be heard.  Any interested person may file written
protests, or objections or appear at the hearing.  The Board shall give
consideration to all such protests in reaching a decision on such application.
The provisions of this subsection shall apply to all carnivals, the provisions
of Section 103.03 of this Code to the contrary not withstanding.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 137,649, Eff. 1/6/69.)	(i)	False Statement.  Any person who makes or
causes to be made any false or misleading statements or omissions in an
application for a carnival permit, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
