                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

CYBER CAFÉS. (§ 103.101.4)

  CYBER CAFÉS.
	(Added by Ord. No. 176,100, Eff. 8/21/04.)	(a)	Definitions:	(1)	“Cyber
Café” is defined as an establishment that provides five (5) or more personal
computers and/or electronic devices for access to the system commonly referred
to as the “internet,” electronic mail (E-mail), computer video games, and
word processing, to the public for compensation and/or public access.  A cyber
café shall also include network gaming establishments that provide the
equipment and technology for multiplayer personal computer games.  Cyber cafés
shall not include businesses where personal computer access is clearly
incidental to the permitted use, as determined by the Zoning Administrator. 
Cyber cafés shall be synonymous with Personal Computer Arcades, PC Cafés,
Internet Cafés, and Cyber Centers.	(2)	“Board” means the Board of Police
Commissioners for the City of Los Angeles.	(b)	Police Commission Permit
Required.  No person shall operate, maintain, conduct or manage a Cyber Café
without a valid permit having been issued for that purpose.	(c)	Permit
Application.  Application for a Cyber Café permit must be in writing on a form
provided by the Board.  Applications must be accompanied by the permit fee
established in Section 103.12 of this Code.	(d)	Issuance of Permits.  The Board
shall issue a permit pursuant to Chapter X of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code.	(e)	Permits – Conditions.  Permits to operate a Cyber Café shall be
issued upon and subject to the following conditions:	(1)	The business for which
a permit is required herein shall be carried on in a building, structure and
location which complies with the requirements and meets the standards of the
health, zoning, fire and safety laws of the State of California and ordinances
of the City of Los Angeles applicable thereto.	(2)	There shall be a video or
digital camera surveillance system that monitors all entrance and exit points
and all interior spaces, except bathrooms and private office areas, during all
hours of operation.  The system shall be maintained in good working order and
is subject to inspection by the City during business hours.  The videotapes or
hard drive data shall be maintained for a minimum of 72 hours.	(3)	The number of
computers shall not exceed a ratio of one (1) user station per 20 square feet of
floor area dedicated for the placement of computers for rent or
charge.	(4)	Booths, stalls, or partitioned portions of a room shall have at
least one side open to an adjacent public area or aisle so that the area inside
the booth, stall, or partitioned portion of a room is visible to persons in the
adjacent public area or aisle.  The side open to the public area or aisle shall
not have a door, curtain or other device capable of blocking visibility into the
interior of the booth, stall, or partitioned portion of a room.  If private
rooms are available for public use, the door must have a clear window measuring
no less than three square feet placed in a manner to allow a clear and
unobstructed view of the interior of the room.	(5)	All exterior windows shall
not be tinted.  Any window coverings such as blinds or drapes must be drawn
back or opened during hours of operation, except when needed to block sun
glare.  Any exterior window signage shall comply with all applicable provisions
of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.	(6)	Lighting to illuminate interior areas
used by patrons shall be designed, located and arranged so as to provide no less
than 1.5 foot-candles surface illumination on a plane 36 inches from the
floor.	(7)	An interior waiting area shall be provided to patrons waiting to use
a computer or electronic device.  Any outside seating shall comply with all
applicable provisions of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.	(8)	The business shall
comply with all State and local laws pertaining to the regulation of sound
amplification and noise.	(9)	There shall be no consumption of alcohol on the
premises, unless the cyber café has obtained a license from the Department of
Alcohol Beverage Control (ABC).  If the business has an ABC license, it is
subject to all applicable ABC rules and regulations, and any applicable
provisions of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.	(10)	There shall be at least one
employee over the age of 18, designated as manager, who is present at all times
during business hours.  If the cyber café has an ABC license, then the manager
must be over 21 years old.	(11)	There shall be no smoking pursuant to 41.50 of
the Los Angeles Municipal Code.	(12)	The business shall comply with all State
and local laws relating to gambling and gaming.	(13)	Patrons under the age of
18, unless legally emancipated, shall not enter or remain in a Cyber Café
between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 1:30 p.m. on regularly scheduled school days,
excluding holidays and/or vacations, or between the hours of 10:00 p.m. on any
day and sunrise of the immediately following day.  This prohibition shall not
apply when the minor is accompanied by a parent or legal guardian.  The legal
guardian should be able to authenticate guardianship.  A sign shall be posted
at the entrance of the business in lettering of a least two (2) inches in size
advising patrons of the time restrictions applying to minors.	(14)	If a patron
who appears to the manager to be under the age of 18 wishes to remain in a Cyber
Café during the hours of 8:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. on regularly scheduled school
days, excluding holidays and/or vacations, or between the hours of 10:00 p.m. on
any day and sunrise of the immediately following day, they must present a valid
form of photo identification to the manager proving they are over the age of
18.  The photo identification must include the patron’s date of birth and be
issued by a governmental agency or educational institution.  Acceptable
identification includes a state driver’s license, state identification card,
school identification card, or any government issued identification card.
