                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ESCORT – PERMIT REQUIRED. (§ 103.107.1)

  ESCORT – PERMIT REQUIRED.
	(Added by Ord. No. 142,884, Eff. 2/6/72.)	(a)	Escort Defined.  As used in this
article, “Escort” means any person who, for a fee, commission, hire, reward
or profit, accompanies other persons to or about social affairs, entertainments
or places of amusement or consorts with others about any place of public resort
or within any private quarters.	(b)	Permit Required.   No person shall be
engaged as an Escort without a written permit from the Board.  Such permit
shall be issued to the address of the employer.	(c)	Employment Prerequisite. 
Before an application for an Escort will be acted upon by the Board, the
applicant shall present satisfactory evidence that such person is at least 18
years of age and that employment has been offered by an Escort Bureau under
permit by the Board, including name and address of prospective employer, and
such employment is contingent upon the issuance of said permit. (Amended by Ord.
No. 144,116, Eff. 12/31/72.)	(d)	Identification Card.  Each permittee shall be
issued an identification card by the Board and shall carry such card when acting
as an escort.  Each permittee shall immediately surrender to the Board any
identification card issued by the Board upon suspension, revocation or
cancelation of the permit, and upon leaving employment.	(e)	Change of
Location.  A change of location may be endorsed on a permit by the Board or its
designated representative upon written application by the permittee, accompanied
by the change of location fee as prescribed.	(f)	Persons Under 18.  No
permittee shall escort or perform any activity covered by this section or offer
to escort or perform any other activity covered by this section to any person
under 18 years of age, except at the special instance and request of the parent,
guardian or other person in lawful custody of the person upon whose behalf the
escort service is engaged. (Amended by Ord. No. 144,116, Eff. 12/31/72.)
