                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

TEENAGE DANCES. (§ 103.118)

  TEENAGE DANCES.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 160,203, Eff. 9/2/85.)	(a)	Definitions.  As used in this
article, the term “premises” shall mean any facility open to the public
where activity regulated hereunder is occurring, the room or rooms where such
activity is occurring and the area adjacent thereto to which direct access is
available from such room and the term “Teenager” shall mean any person over
the age of 13 years and under the age of 18 years.	(b)	Permit Required.	1.	No
person, dancing club or other association shall, without first obtaining a
permit from the Board, operate, manage or maintain any dance hall, “disco”,
nightclub or hostess hall, or conduct any public dance or dances wherein
teenagers are permitted to be present, except as herein provided.	2.	Such permit
shall be in addition to any other dance permit required by this
article.	(c)	Permit – Application – Contents of.  An application for a
permit shall be accompanied by certification that the premises where a dance is
to be held or dancing activity is to occur is adequate for the purpose, and that
the premises conform with the existing health, safety, fire and zoning
ordinances of the City of Los Angeles. The certification shall also specify the
maximum number of persons that may safely be accommodated at the location where
the dance or dancing activity is to take place.	(d)	Exceptions.	1.	A permit
shall not be required for any agency or department of the City of Los Angeles,
County of Los Angeles, Board of Education, or other political subdivision of the
State of California, or for any religious or charitable organization holding a
valid tax exempt registration certificate under Section 21.22 of this Code and
which is normally engaged in youth or child-serving activities.	2.	A permit
shall not be required for any hotel, cafe, restaurant, banquet hall or catering
facility which does not predominantly cater to the patronage of teenagers and
where no charge or admission is imposed for the privilege of entering or
dancing.	(e)	Investigation.  Upon the filing of an application, the Board shall
cause that investigation to be made which it deems necessary. The Board shall
issue no permit to the applicant unless the following conditions are
satisfied:	1.	The dance or dancing activity for which an application has been
filed conforms to the laws of the City of Los Angeles and of the State of
California, and will not constitute a menace to the health, peace or safety of
the community;	2.	A sufficient number of adult supervisors who are employees of
the location will be provided to insure compliance with the provisions of this
section and any rules or regulations promulgated by the Board with respect
thereto. For purposes herein, a sufficient number shall constitute, at a
minimum, a ratio of one adult to every 35 teenagers in attendance at the teenage
dance premises.	(f)	Lighting in Hall.  Each of the premises where any dance or
dancing activity regulated under this section is held, shall be adequately
lighted at all times when open for dancing. For purposes herein, the volume of
illumination shall at no time be less than one foot-candle in any part of the
building and premises accessible to participants.	(g)	Parking – Lighting. 
All off-street parking facilities under the direct or indirect control of a
permittee shall be adequately lighted and supervised so as to ensure that
violations of this article or other laws do not occur. For purposes herein,
adequate lighting and supervision will be established by the Board at the time
of the granting or reviewing a permit.	(h)	Use of Drugs or Alcoholic Beverages
– Prohibited.  No alcoholic beverages shall be sold, consumed or be available
on the premises where there is a dance or dancing activity is being held which
is regulated by this section. Admission to the premises shall be denied to any
person showing evidence of drinking any alcoholic beverages or showing symptoms
of being intoxicated as a result of the ingestion of any chemical
substance.	(i)	Time Limit for Dances.  Teenage dancing regulated hereunder
shall not be permitted after 1:00 a.m. on Saturdays, Sundays, and local public
school holidays. On all other days, except Fridays, Saturdays, and the day
before a legal holiday, teenage dancing regulated hereunder shall be prohibited
after the hour of 10:00 p.m., provided however that permission to continue
dancing after 10:00 p.m. on such other days may be granted by the Board during
public school vacation periods if the Board finds the continuation of dancing
after 10:00 p.m. does not unreasonably disturb the peace and quiet of the
surrounding neighborhood. In no event shall such an establishment be permitted
to continue such teenage dances or dancing activity later than 1:00
a.m.	(j)	Teenagers Under the Age of 15 Years.  No person under the age of 15
years shall be permitted to enter any premises where there is dancing activity
regulated under this section unless such person is accompanied by a parent or
legal guardian unless the parent or legal guardian of such person has signed and
filed with the owner, manager or operator of the facility a consent form for
such minor to be there unaccompanied by said parent or guardian. The consent
shall be set forth on a form approved by the Board. Such form must be signed by
the parent or legal guardian in the presence of the owner, manager or operator
of the facility and shall contain the minor’s name, date of birth, address,
and the parent or legal guardian’s telephone number for use in case of an
emergency. In the event no such consent form has been so completed and filed,
such teenagers shall not be permitted to enter into or remain at the premises
unless accompanied or escorted by his or her parent or legal guardian. Any
teenager admitted and accompanied by a parent or legal guardian shall have the
rights and privileges of other legally admitted teenagers. Any teenager entering
pursuant to a consent form filed by his or her parent or legal guardian must
present valid identification as defined in Subsection (n).	(k)	Persons Under the
Age of 13 Years.  In no event shall any person under the age of 13 years be
permitted to enter the premises where there is a dance or dancing activity being
held which is regulated under this section.	(l)	Persons Over the Age of 20
Years.  No person over the age of 20 years shall be permitted to enter the
premises where there is a dance or dancing activity being held which is
regulated under this section unless that person is a parent or legal guardian
accompanying a child as required by Subsections (j) and (m)
herein.	(m)	Teenagers Between the Age of 15 and 18 Years.  No person between
the ages of 15 and 18 years may be present at premises regulated under this
section unless he or she (1) is accompanied by a parent or legal guardian, or,
if unaccompanied, the parent or legal guardian of such person has signed and
filed a consent form similar to that required by Subsection (j) herein; or (2)
presents valid proof of age as defined in Subsection (n) herein.	(n)	Proof of
Age.   Proof of age shall be required of each patron entering the
establishment. Such proof may be established by identification issued by a
governmental agency, the patron’s school, or the Department of Motor Vehicles,
and must contain the patron’s name, date of birth, and a picture that has been
taken within the preceding two years.	(o)	Denial of Entry on Request of
Parent.  No person having charge or control of any premises regulated under
this section shall allow a teenager to enter or remain at the premises after
receiving a written notice signed by the parent or legal guardian of such
teenager which requests that said teenager be prevented from entering the
premises.	(p)	Attendance.  Except in emergency situations, no patron shall be
permitted to leave the premises at which any dance or dancing activity regulated
by this section is being held and thereafter re-enter prior to the conclusion of
such dance or dancing activity. No pass or other indicia permitting re-entry
shall be issued.	(q)	Criminal History of Supervisory Staff.  No person, dancing
club, or other association or entity obtaining a permit under this section shall
employ any person as a supervisory employee at the premises at the time of any
dancing activity regulated hereunder who has been convicted of a misdemeanor or
a felony in the last five (5) years, nor shall such permittee employ any person
who has been arrested and is out on bail or on his or her own recognizance
pending trial. As permitted by California Labor Code Section 432.7, such
permittee shall ask all applicants for such employment at the premises about any
conviction, as that term is used in said Labor Code Section, and about any
arrest for which the applicant is out on bail or on his or her own recognizance
pending trial. Copies of the employment applications of all persons hired shall
be filed with the Board. Upon a showing of just causes a permittee may apply to
the Board for a waiver of this provision. Just cause, as used in this
subsection, shall include but is not limited to a demonstration that the prior
conviction, or arrest as described herein, would not have an adverse effect on
the employee’s ability to supervise teenagers at a location as described
within this section. While teenagers are present, all employees also present
within the premises, as that term is defined by this section, shall be
considered supervisory employees.	(r)	Duty of Management.  If a teenager is
discovered inside the premises showing evidence or symptoms of being intoxicated
as a result of the ingestion of alcohol or any chemical substance, that teenager
shall be reported by management to local police authorities and to his or her
parent or legal guardian. Management shall attempt to separate the teenager from
other teenagers at the premises pending the arrival of police or the parent or
legal guardian of the teenager. A notice shall be posted by all pay phones
containing the local police telephone number and shall request all patrons to
call the police if management neglects to take action to report a violation of
this subsection.	(s)	Operation After 1:00 a.m. – 18 Year Olds.  If the
premises intends to operate after the closing time set forth in Subsection (i)
herein, the premises must first be vacated by all customers, and thereafter only
those persons 18 years of age or older who present valid identification
containing proof of age established as set forth in Subsection (n) herein may be
permitted to enter the premises.	(t)	Additional Restrictions by the Board.  The
Board may promulgate additional rules as necessary with respect
thereto.	(u)	Regulation by Permittee.  Nothing herein is intended to preclude
the imposition of more restrictive regulations by any permittee so long as the
regulations are not in conflict with any provision of this section.
