                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

AUTOMOBILE PARKING LOTS. (§ 103.202)

  AUTOMOBILE PARKING LOTS.	(a)	Definitions.  As used in this
article:	1.	“AUTOMOBILE PARKING LOT” or “LOT” means any lot, contiguous
lots, or other parcels of land under single management or control where more
than eight motor vehicles are kept stored or parked within or without a
building, for a consideration, at any one time.	EXEMPTIONS:	The provisions of
this section shall not apply to any automobile parking lot:	(i)	Which is
operated and entirely controlled by the owner or operator of an apartment house,
lodging house, hotel or multiple dwelling, motel, auto court, or other place of
residence, or any office building, when such lot is used exclusively, with no
fee or charge, for the accommodation of the vehicles of occupants, tenants or
lessees of that place of residence or office building and their guests and
invitees;	(ii)	Which is not operated for profit but is maintained and used
exclusively for the accommodation of the vehicles of employees or customers of
the owner or person in control of the lot; or	(iii)	Which is directly operated
and maintained by the owner or operator of any retail or wholesale store or any
theatre or other business or amusement establishment, and is used exclusively
for the accommodation of vehicles of the customers or patrons thereof, with no
fee or charge being made therefor.	(b)	Permit Required.  (Amended by Ord. No.
180,922, Eff. 12/12/09.)	1.	No person shall conduct, manage or operate an
automobile parking lot without a written permit from the Board.  For purposes
of this section, lots or parcels of land separated by a public street or public
alley shall not be deemed contiguous lots or parcels.	2.	Companies that conduct,
manage, or operate multiple automobile parking lots shall obtain a Master
Automobile Parking Lot permit.  The Master Automobile Parking Lot permit
application shall comply with the requirements set forth in Section 103.02.1 and
shall separately identify each parking lot to which it applies.  A Master
Automobile Parking Lot permit shall apply only to those parking lots
specifically identified in the permit at the time it is issued.	3.	Companies
that have obtained a Master Automobile Parking Lot permit shall file any
applications for additional automobile parking lots in person only at the main
office of the Office of Finance.  Such applications for additional lots shall
provide the location of the additional lot and the name of a qualified manager
designated to conduct, manage or operate the additional lot.	4.	The Board may
grant a temporary permit for an additional parking lot on the same day the
application for such parking lot is submitted to the Office of Finance provided
the following conditions are met:	(i)	A Master Automobile Parking Lot permit is
on file at the Office of Finance;	(ii)	A complete application for the additional
parking lot is on file at the Office of Finance;	(iii)	All permit fees and taxes
owed to the City have been paid to the Office of Finance;	(iv)	Documentation of
the proper zoning clearance has been submitted to the Office of Finance;
and	(v)	A preliminary investigation by the Board does not reveal information
which would normally constitute grounds for denial.	(c)	Prerequisite to
Application.	1.	Bond Required.   Before an application for a permit to operate
a parking lot will be received or acted upon, the applicant must file and
maintain with the Office of Finance (Amended by Ord. No. 173,300, Eff. 6/30/00,
Oper. 7/1/00.) a bond in the amount of $10,000 for each parking lot, or a
blanket bond in the amount of $50,000 covering all parking lots owned or
operated by the same applicant. Such bond shall indemnify any person whose
vehicle is accepted by the permittee for parking or storage against loss by
reason of theft or other unlawful taking, or for damages to such vehicle for
which the permittee is legally liable. Said bond shall provide that it will be
continuous until cancelled by a 30 day written notice, and that it will cover
each and every annual permit issued to the principal named until so cancelled.
Notice of cancellation shall be sent by registered mail to the City Attorney 30
days in advance of the cancellation date.	All bonds shall be executed by a
corporate surety approved by the Board and admitted to do business in this
State. Such bond shall not be void upon the first recovery, but may be sued and
recovered upon from time to time by any person aggrieved, until the whole amount
is exhausted.	2.	Liability Under Bond – Restoration.  If the amount of
liability under the bond is decreased for any reason, the permit shall be
automatically suspended. In order to reinstate the permit, the permittee shall
either file a new bond or restore the bond on file to the original
amount.	(d)	Disciplinary Action – Additional Ground.  The following acts
committed by a permittee hereunder shall be a ground for disciplinary action in
addition to the grounds listed in Sec. 103.35:	1.	The permittee, his agents or
employees, through carelessness, negligence or failure to make proper provision
for the safeguarding of vehicles left in their custody, have knowingly or
unknowingly facilitated or contributed toward the theft or conversion of any
such vehicle; or of the contents thereof, or the damaging of any such vehicle;
or	2.	The permittee, his agents or employees have failed to cooperate with the
police to aid in the detection of any theft or other crime committed on the
premises described in the permit or which arose out of the conduct of the
business for which the permit was issued; or	3.	The permittee, his agents or
employees delivered a vehicle in their custody to a person who failed to present
either the parking ticket issued therefor or a memorandum written and signed in
the presence of said permittee or his attendant by the person to whom the ticket
was delivered. Such memorandum must give a satisfactory reason for the inability
to produce the ticket. No penalty for a violation of this subdivision shall be
imposed against any permittee or attendant where the vehicle was delivered to
the registered owner thereof or to any person lawfully entitled to possession of
the vehicle.	(e)	Handling of Vehicles.	(1)	Neither the permittee, his agents or
employees shall drive, park, stand, stop or store any vehicle parked or stored
in any such parking lot on, upon or across any public street, public sidewalk,
public alley or other public place, or drive or move any vehicle parked or
stored in any automobile parking lot, except within the property lines of such
automobile parking lot. Neither the permittee nor any agent or employee shall
take or drive, or permit any person to take or drive, any vehicle left in the
custody of the permittee away from such automobile parking lot for any purpose
without the express permission of the bailor of such vehicle or his authorized
representative, except that any such vehicle may be moved for safekeeping to
another place in the event of fire, flood or other catastrophe or
emergency.	(2)	The permittee, his agents or employees shall notify the Police
Department whenever a vehicle has been left on a parking lot for a period in
excess of 48 hours without a prior contractual arrangement for such period of
time in order to determine whether the vehicle is stolen or abandoned. Following
such notification, the permittee, his agents or employees may remove or cause to
be removed such vehicle to a facility within the City that is attended on a
24-hour basis, for the purpose of protecting the property for the account of and
at the expense of the bailor of the vehicle.	(f)	Guarding of
Vehicles.	(1)	Attendants – Receipts.  There must be at least one attendant on
the lot at all times during the hours the lot is open for business. At each
closing time, each vehicle, except those locked by the persons bringing them to
the lot, which then remains on the lot, shall be securely locked if a key
thereto is available and said key deposited with a responsible person at a safe
and convenient place, both previously approved by the Board, to be delivered to
the person who parked the vehicle upon surrender of the parking receipt or
ticket. A ticket or receipt must be delivered to each person leaving a vehicle
on the lot at the time of such leaving, and must have printed on it the name of
the person maintaining or operating such lot and the address thereof, and also
the place where the key to the vehicle may be obtained after the lot has closed;
except that a parking receipt or ticket need not be delivered at time of parking
to contract or term customers of parking lots; in lieu of such ticket or receipt
for contract or term customers, the parking lot shall issue a receipt to the
customer at the beginning of each contract or term period for
parking.	(2)	Return of Vehicles.  The permittee, his agents, or employees shall
deliver each vehicle to the person who left that vehicle in his care upon
presentation of the parking ticket or receipt therefor.	(3)	Lots Without
Attendants – Regulations.  (Amended by Ord. No. 133,317, Eff. 12/23/66.) 
The Board may permit the operation of a parking lot without an attendant where
the customer is required to drive, park and lock his vehicle if the Board finds
that the design of the lot makes such operation feasible without causing traffic
congestion or damage to property. In no event shall a permittee be allowed to
operate a parking lot without an attendant where the vehicles are so parked that
any vehicle has to be moved in order to move any other vehicle.	Each parking lot
operated without an attendant which is equipped with an automatic device,
whether coin operated or otherwise, which regulates ingress or egress or both
ingress and egress, shall have posted on or about all such devices a sign,
plainly visible to the public indicating the name, address and telephone number
of a person to be contacted in case of emergency or failure of the automatic
device to function. The person to be notified shall respond to any request for
assistance within a reasonable time.	Each parking lot operated without an
attendant shall have a workable device to inform the public when the lot is
fully occupied, except that where parking is restricted to use of contract
customers on a daily, weekly or monthly rental basis, a sign shall be posted
informing the public of the parking restrictions applicable.	If the Board finds
that the parking lot is so designed that the public can readily determine if
parking spaces are open without driving onto the lot, it may exempt the lot from
the requirement of an automatic device to indicate that the lot is
full.	(g)	Signs – Closing Time – Parking Fees.	(1)	Each permittee shall
install and maintain at each entrance of the lot for which the permit has been
issued a sign plainly visible from the street with letters and numerals at least
six inches high and one-inch stroke in contrasting colors, showing the
permittee’s name, the address of the business, the time the lot closes, and
the parking fees; except, however, that the name and address of the permittee
need not exceed three inches in height with a one-half inch stroke, in
contrasting colors. If any letters or numerals on such signs exceed 12 inches in
height, then all other numerals and letters relating to parking fees shall be
not less than one-half the height of the largest numeral or letter on the sign.
All fractions of time shall be spelled out in letters. Parking fees shall be
posted at the entrance of the lot as follows:	(i)	Rates per hour;	(ii)	Rates per
fraction of an hour, if any;	(iii)	Rates for subsequent hours or fraction
thereof;	(iv)	The maximum charge;	(v)	The time the lot closes.	In the event that
afternoon, evening, or night parking fees will be higher than the daytime fees,
then such higher fees shall also be posted at the entrance of the parking lot in
addition to the daytime parking fees.	Each permittee shall install and maintain
in a conspicuous place on the parking lot, which place may be designated by the
Board, a sign with letters and numerals at least six inches high and one-inch
stroke in contrasting colors showing a complete schedule of parking fees
applicable during any business day showing all rates, changes in rates and the
hours such changes become effective. If any letters or numerals on such signs
exceed 12 inches in height, then all other numerals and letters relating to
parking fees shall be not less than one-half the height of the largest letter or
numeral on the sign. All fractions of time shall be spelled out in letters.	It
shall be unlawful for any permittee or his agents or employees to charge or
collect any parking fees for the parking of any vehicle at a rate in excess of
the rate posted at the entrance of the lot at the time the vehicle was accepted
for storage, nor shall any permittee alter or change any of his posted schedules
of fees by superimposing another and different sign thereon, or otherwise,
during the course of any business day while the lot is open for business;
provided, however, that any posted schedule of fees may be changed prior to the
opening of any lot for business at the beginning of any business day, and the
fee schedule posted at the entrance of the lot may be changed at the time of
change to a night rate and to a second night rate change after 1:00 o’clock
A.M.	(2)	Each permittee shall file with the Board and post on the parking lot
within 30 days after the effective date of this subdivision a complete and
accurate schedule of rates to be charged specifying therein the time and the
dates for which such rates are applicable. Applicants for parking lot permits
shall file such a schedule with their application and post such schedule on the
lot before operating the parking lot. No charge other than the rates specified
in such schedule shall be made except as hereinafter provided.	In the event a
permittee desires to change his schedule of rates he shall give a 10-day written
notice to the Board which shall contain the new schedule of rates. A duplicate
copy of such notice shall be posted for a period of 10 days in a conspicuous
place in the parking lot, which place may be designated by the Board. Upon the
expiration of the 10-day period, the rates may be changed in accordance with
such notice.	Upon the application to the Board and a showing of hardship by the
permittee, the Board may permit a downward revision of the rate schedule within
the said 10-day period.  (Amended by Ord. No. 113,316, Eff. 5/29/59.)	(3)	When
an automobile parking lot has been filled to the safe capacity stated upon the
permit for that lot, the operator shall not allow the entry of additional
vehicles except when vacancies are created below that safe capacity. Each time
that the parking lot is filled to its safe capacity, the operator shall place a
sign at the entrance thereof with the word “FULL” thereon. The letters of
such word shall be at least six inches high with a one-inch stroke, and the sign
and letters shall be in contrasting colors. The sign shall be affixed to a stand
at least 24 inches high.	(4)	Each permittee shall post prominently at the
attendant’s booth or other approved location, notification of the
“six-minute grace period” provided in Section 444 of the Vehicle Code where
applicable.	(h)	Signs – Ticket Validation.  No permittee, operator, manager
or any other person in charge of any parking lot shall install or maintain any
billboard or sign at such parking lot indicating that the validation or
endorsement of the parking receipt by any other person will be accepted in lieu
of all or any portion of the parking fee, or entitle the customer to a refund
thereof unless such validations or endorsements are accepted as
advertised.	(i)	Attendants – Identification.  Attendants shall wear cards,
buttons, tabs, badges or name plates with their correct, full names inscribed
thereon attached to a conspicuous place on their clothing, except that where
permittees have assigned non-duplicated, consecutive employee numbers to their
attendants, such attendants may wear a button or tab containing such employee
number in lieu of a name plate. Attendants shall identify themselves by giving
their full, correct name or correct, assigned employee number to any patron of
the parking lot who asks for such identification.	(j)	Fencing.  If the Board
finds that protection is necessary to prevent theft of property, or to prevent
injury or damage to pedestrians or property, it shall require that those
portions of the parking lot not needed for access or egress be surrounded by a
wall or fence to be approved by the Board. The height and the materials of such
wall or fence shall be specified by the Board but in no event shall a fence
higher than five feet be required nor shall such fence exceed in height the
height of fences permitted by the provisions of Article 2, Chapter I of this
Code.	(k)	Investigation.	(1)	Upon the filing of such application, the Board
shall make such investigation as it deems necessary and if the Board finds that
the conduct or operation of an automobile parking lot at the proposed location
would not be detrimental or injurious to the neighborhood in general, and that
the applicant is of good character and of good business repute and has not been
convicted of theft or embezzlement, or of any offense involving the unlawful
use, taking or conversion of a vehicle belonging to another, and is otherwise a
fit and proper person to conduct an automobile parking lot, or if the applicant
is a corporation, its officers, directors and principal stockholders are of good
character and of good business repute and have not been convicted of theft or
embezzlement, or of any offense involving the unlawful use, taking or conversion
of a vehicle belonging to another, and are otherwise fit and proper persons to
conduct such a lot, the permit shall issue, otherwise, the application shall be
denied only after the Board shall conduct a hearing on said application.	(2)	The
Board shall cause to be shown on each permit issued the safe capacity of the
parking lot, which safe capacity shall be determined by the Board during its
investigation upon the filing of each application. Such safe capacity shall be
determined by the judgment of the Board, with particular attention to ease of
removal of any car from such lot within a reasonable period of time, without
movement of other vehicles into the public right of way.
