                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

TOW UNIT OPERATORS. (§ 103.204.1)

  TOW UNIT OPERATORS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 152,905, Eff. 10/19/79.)	(a)	Permit Required.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 158,406, Eff. 11/20/83.)	(1)	No person shall operate or drive a tow
unit nor shall any person be employed as a tow unit operator until such time as
said person has received a written permit from the Board to act as a tow unit
operator except that any person employed as a tow unit operator may operate a
tow truck without permit while under the immediate and direct supervision of a
permitted tow unit operator for a period of not to exceed seven consecutive
calendar days from the initial date of employment.	(2)	In addition to or in lieu
of a Board-issued temporary permit authorized by 103.06(b), a temporary permit
not to exceed 45 days may be issued to an applicant by the Secretary of the
Board provided the following conditions are met:	a.	An application for permit is
on file at the main office of the City Clerk and all permit fees have been paid;
and	b.	A preliminary investigation by Commission staff does not reveal
information which would normally constitute grounds for denial; and	c.	The
applicant possesses a valid California Driver’s license.	The Secretary of the
Board may suspend such temporary permit at any time if the Secretary has reason
to believe that any of the above conditions have not been met.  The Secretary
shall notify the applicant in writing of the reasons for any such suspension,
and the application for a permanent permit shall continue to be processed
according to provisions of this Code and any applicable rules and regulations of
the Board.	(b)	Identification Card.  Every person possessing either a temporary
or permanent permit to act as a tow unit operator shall at all times while
directly engaged in the operation of a tow unit carry upon his or her person an
identification card issued by the Board identifying the bearer as a tow unit
operator and shall display such card to any police officer upon request.  The
identification card shall bear the name, physical description, business address,
and photograph of the permittee and the name and address of the garage employing
the permittee.	The identification card shall be returned to the Board
immediately upon suspension, revocation or termination of
employment.	(c)	Official Police Garage Tow Unit Operator.  As used in this
article, Official Police Garage Tow Unit Operator means the driver of a tow unit
employed by an Official Police Garage to respond to police-initiated requests
for tow service.  No person shall operate as tow unit bearing an Official
Police Garage insignia without written permission from the Board.	(d)	Change of
Location.  A change of location may be endorsed on a permit by the Board upon a
written application by the permittee accompanied by a change of location fee
prescribed in Section 103.12 of this Code.
