                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

FAMILY BILLIARD ROOMS. (§ 103.112.1)

  FAMILY BILLIARD ROOMS.
	(Added by Ord. No. 139,204, Eff. 10/23/69.)	(a)	Definitions.	1.	“FAMILY
BILLIARD ROOM” means any billiard room wherein minors are permitted to play
billiards under the provisions of this section.	(b)	Permit Required.  No person
shall conduct, operate or manage a family billiard room without a written permit
from the Board.	(c)	Investigation.  Upon the filing of an application for a
permit, the Board shall cause to be made such investigation as it deems
necessary.	(d)	Public Hearings.  The Board shall hold a public hearing prior to
taking action on an application for a permit pursuant to this section. The
applicant shall cause to be published a notice of public hearing in a newspaper
of general circulation in the district where the business is to be located. Said
notice shall be published two times, at intervals of not less than five days,
within the 21-day period following the filing of an application. Furthermore the
Board may give notice by mail to all property owners within three hundred feet
of the proposed business. The Board shall cause a suitable public notice to be
posted at the location where the business is to be conducted. The applicant
shall bear all expenses involved in mailing, printing, publishing and posting
such notice. Such public notice shall conform to the rules and regulations
adopted by the Board and shall be designed to inform the public as to the nature
of the business to be engaged in, its location, the names of the applicant or
applicants, the time of the public hearing and the right of persons objecting to
be heard. Any interested person may file written protests or objections, or
appear at the hearing. The Board shall give consideration to all such protests
in reaching a decision on such application.	If the Board shall find that the
operation of the family billiard room for which the permit is requested at the
location set forth in the application will not violate any law of the State of
California or any ordinance of the City of Los Angeles or constitute a menace to
the health, peace, or safety of the community, and the applicant has not had a
permit revoked by the Board within one year prior to the application, then the
Board shall issue a permit to the applicant.	(e)	Permits – Conditions. 
Permits to operate family billiard rooms shall be issued upon and subject to the
following conditions:	1.	Physical Environment:	(i)	Family billiard rooms shall
be located at street level or that level which most approximates street
level.	(ii)	A clear and unobstructed view of the entire interior of the family
billiard room shall be visible from the entrance to such room.	(iii)	No
partitions forming rooms, stalls or other enclosures within which the public may
congregate shall be permitted within the family billiard room. However, this
shall not prohibit the maintenance of washrooms, toilet rooms or storage
closets.	(iv)	The family billiard room shall be maintained in a separate room
from other business activities of the owner or operator of such room unless the
owner or operator has obtained the consent of the Board to do otherwise.	(v)	No
alcoholic beverages shall be sold, consumed or available in family billiard
rooms.	2.	Conduct:	(i)	Behavior within family billiard rooms shall conform to
the rules and regulations of the Board in addition to the provisions of this
section and of all other applicable laws. Sufficient adult supervision shall be
provided by management to assure compliance with such rules, regulations and
laws.	The owners, managers and operators, and each of them, of a family billiard
room shall be strictly responsible for the enforcement of all rules and
regulations, and shall not permit any person violating any rule, regulation or
other applicable law to remain in such family billiard room.	(ii)	No person
shall bring any form of alcoholic liquor into a family billiard room. No person
in an intoxicated condition shall enter or remain in a family billiard room. No
person shall conduct himself in a boisterous or disorderly manner in a family
billiard room.	(iii)	No person having charge or control of any family billiard
room shall permit any person to enter or remain therein who has any form of
alcoholic liquor in his possession, or permit any intoxicated, boisterous or
disorderly person to enter, be or remain in any family billiard room.	(f)	Age
Limits.  Persons under the age of 18 years may enter and remain in family
billiard rooms and play billiards therein with the following limitations:	1.	No
person having charge or control of a family billiard room shall allow a person
under the age of 18 years to enter or remain in a family billiard room
unaccompanied by his parent or guardian.	2.	No person under the age of 18 years
shall enter or remain in a family billiard room unless accompanied by his parent
or guardian.	EXCEPTION:	A person under the age of 18 years may be present in a
family billiard room and engage in the game of billiards, unaccompanied by a
parent or guardian, if the parent of guardian of such person has signed and
filed with the owner, manager or operator of the family billiard room a consent
form of a type approved by the Board. Such form must be signed by the parent or
guardian in the presence of the owner, manager or operator.	3.	No person having
charge or control of any family billiard room shall allow a person under the age
of 18 years to enter and remain therein after the receipt of a notice signed by
the parent or guardian of such minor person in which notice the parent or
guardian has requested that said minor be prevented from entering or remaining
in any such premises.	4.	No person less than 18 years of age shall enter or
remain in a family billiard room between the hours of 12:01 and 9:00 A.M. Nor
shall any person having charge or control of a family billiard room permit a
person less than 18 years of age to enter or remain in such family billiard room
between the hours of 12:01 and 9:00 A.M.
