                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SECONDHAND BOOK DEALERS. (§ 103.310)

  SECONDHAND BOOK DEALERS.	(a)	Definitions.  As used in this
section:	1.	“SECONDHAND BOOK DEALER” means a person engaging in, conducting,
managing or carrying on the business of buying, selling, exchanging or otherwise
dealing in secondhand books and magazines, secondhand text books or secondhand
educational materials.	2.	“SECONDHAND TEXT BOOKS” or “SECONDHAND
EDUCATIONAL MATERIALS” means those text books or other materials required or
designated by any university, college, school, or other educational institution
to be used or which were used by students in studying the courses offered by
said institutions. Such text books or other materials voluntarily used by said
students in conjunction with those books required or designated by said
institutions are included.	(b)	Permit Required.  No person shall engage in,
conduct, manage, or carry on the business of secondhand book dealer without a
written permit from the Board.	(c)	Change of Location.  A change of location
may be endorsed on a permit by the Board upon written application by the
permittee accompanied by the change of location fee prescribed in Section
103.12.	(d)	Bills of Sale.  Every secondhand book dealer buying, selling or
exchanging or otherwise dealing in secondhand books, secondhand text books or
secondhand educational materials or exchanging new text books or new educational
materials for secondhand text books or secondhand educational materials, as
whole or part payment therefor, shall immediately upon receiving the same,
require the seller or other person from whom said secondhand text books or
materials are bought, or received in exchange, to execute a bill of sale
therefor. Said bills of sale shall be numbered consecutively and shall be kept
on file and open during business hours to the inspection of any police officer
or representative of the Board.	(e)	Contents of Bill of Sale.  Said bill of
sale shall show:	1.	Date. The date of purchase or receiving in exchange;	2.	Name
of Seller. The name and address of the person selling or exchanging such
articles and the name of the educational institution said person is attending or
in which he is registered;	3.	Name of Institution. The name of the educational
institution, if any, requiring or designating the use of such textbooks or
materials, including the date of the term or semester during which the same were
used;	4.	Name of Purchaser. The name and address of the purchaser or person
receiving said secondhand books, secondhand text books or materials, said name
and address coinciding with those showing upon the permit issued by the Board
and held by said person;	5.	Description. A description of the secondhand books,
secondhand text books or materials purchased by him sufficient in all respect to
clearly identify the same.	(f)	Right to Sell.  A secondhand book dealer who
purchases or receives in exchange secondhand books, secondhand text books or
other secondhand educational materials shall, prior to making such purchase or
exchange, ascertain that the person selling or delivering for exchange any such
secondhand books or materials has a legal right to do so.	(g)	Identification of
Books.  The secondhand book dealer shall immediately upon purchasing or
receiving in exchange any such secondhand books or materials stamp, write, print
or otherwise permanently affix to each article so purchased or received the
number of the bill of sale covering said articles.	(h)	Signs.  Secondhand book
dealers shall maintain on the premises where said business is located a sign
plainly printed in the English language of sufficient size so that the same may
be easy to read from the sidewalk in front of said place of business. Such sign
shall state the business in which such person is engaged. If said business is
located in an office building the sign shall be placed on the door of said
office. If the business is located in a department of any building, the sign
shall be placed at the entrance to said department.	(i)	Exemptions.  This
section shall not apply to the receipt or sale of secondhand books, secondhand
text books or secondhand educational materials by any person who receives or
purchases such books or materials from any other person when such other person
has made required reports as fixed by rule or regulation of the Board and shall
have held the said books or materials for the length of time therein required.
