                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DANCE HALLS, DANCING CLUBS, PUBLIC DANCES. (§ 103.106)

  DANCE HALLS, DANCING CLUBS, PUBLIC DANCES.
	(Title Amended by Ord. No. 115,510, Eff. 3/13/60.)	(a)	Definitions.  As used
in this article:	1.	“DANCE HALL” means any place where the holding or
conducting of public dances is carried on.	2.	“DANCING CLUB” means any club
or association of persons which conducts dances, other than public dances for
its members or bona fide guests at which a fee is charged, either for admission
to such dance or for dancing therein, or at which any collection or donation of
money is made or received, or in which the amount of dues to be paid by each
member is dependent upon attendance at such dances by such member.	3.	“PUBLIC
DANCE” means a gathering of persons in or upon any premises where dancing is
participated in and to which premises the public is admitted.	(b)	Permit
required.  No person shall conduct or maintain any dance hall, dancing club or
public dance without written permit from the Board.	1.	A permit shall be
required to hold any public dance on one occasion.	(c)	Floor Space.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 150,081, Eff. 10/8/77.)  No permit shall be issued or be valid for
any dance hall, dancing club or public dance for dancing to be held at any
premises, or location which is a part thereof, that does not have designated and
set aside for dancing purposes at each location identified therefor on the
permit application for the premises, at least two hundred (200) square feet of
dancing area, exclusive of hallway space.  Nor shall a permit be issued unless
the Board determines that the surface set aside and reserved for dancing at each
specified location is sufficiently flat, level, hard and rigid to be suitable
for dancing.	The application for permit shall specify each location on the
premises, the dimensions and the nature of the surface designated for dancing. 
A surface area designated for dancing shall not be located in a manner which
blocks or obstructs ingress or egress of patrons at the dance.  All of each of
the specified dancing areas set aside shall be reserved exclusively for dancing
during the time any dance or dancing is taking place, or is scheduled to take
place, at the location.	(d)	Dance – When Liquor May Be Served.  Alcoholic
beverages may be served at a dance hall, dancing club, or at a public dance when
the sale and service of such beverages is permitted by State law and not
otherwise prohibited by this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 152,531. Eff. 8/6/79.)
