                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PERMITS – ANNUAL FEE. (§ 103.07)

  PERMITS – ANNUAL FEE.	(a)	Annual Police Permit Fee – Payable.  The
annual police permit fees required by this article for existing police permits
shall become due and payable each year during the two months next preceding the
first day of January of the calendar year for which annual police permit fee is
paid.  (Amended by Ord. No. 137,438, Eff. 11/7/68.)	(b)	Late Filing –
Discretion of Board.  The Board may, in its discretion, authorize the
acceptance of an annual police permit fee paid within 15 days after the annual
police permit is due if the Board finds that the failure to pay said fee within
the time allowed was due to inadvertence or excusable neglect. (Amended by Ord.
No. 137,438, Eff. 11/7/68.)	(c)	Late Filing – Veterans.  Whenever a person
who previously held a permit but failed to pay the prescribed fee within the
time provided, shows to the satisfaction of the Board that his failure to pay
such fee within the time provided herein resulted from his induction or entrance
into the armed forces of the United States, or of any allied nation, and that
the application for a permit is made within six months after the applicant’s
honorable discharge from the service, the annual police permit fee only shall be
charged thereof. (Amended by Ord. No. 137,438, Eff. 11/7/68.)	(d)	Late Filing
– Effect.  (Amended by Ord. No. 143,868, Eff. 10/23/72.)  If the annual
police permit fee is not received within the time allowed in Subsections (a),
(b) and (c) of this section, the permit shall terminate and the former permittee
shall cease engaging in the trade, business or occupation for which the permit
was required.  Application for a new permit may be made as set forth in this
article.	The application shall be considered as an original application for a
permit and the fee shall be that prescribed for the issuance of an original
permit.	(e)	Notwithstanding the provisions of Subsection (a), annual police
permit fees, except those owed by Firearms Vendors and Firearms Salespersons,
required by this article to be paid for the year 2003, shall become due and
payable on June 30, 2003.  (Amended by Ord. No. 175,281, Oper. 3/31/03.)
