                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SECONDHAND DEALERS. (§ 103.311)

  SECONDHAND DEALERS.	(a)	Definitions.  As used in this
article:	1.	“SECONDHAND DEALER” means a person engaging in, conducting,
managing, or carrying on the business of buying, selling, or otherwise dealing
in secondhand or rebuilt or reconditioned goods, wares and merchandise. The term
does not include secondhand dealer-jewelry, or persons holding permits as auto
wreckers or used car dealers or secondhand book dealers. The acceptance, sale or
disposal of used automobile tires or automobile batteries taken in part payment
for new tires or batteries shall not be deemed to constitute the doing of the
business of a secondhand dealer.	2.	“SECONDHAND DEALER – JEWELRY” means a
person engaging in, conducting, managing or carrying on the business of buying,
selling, or otherwise dealing in secondhand jewelry, precious and semi-precious
stones and metals and imitations thereof, watches, rings, bracelets, and other
similar goods, wares and merchandise.	(b)	Permit Required.  No person shall
engage in, manage, conduct or carry on the business of a secondhand dealer or a
secondhand dealer-jewelry without a written permit from the Board.	(c)	Change of
Location.  A change of location may be endorsed on a permit by the Board upon
written application by the permittee accompanied by the change of location fee
prescribed in Section 103.12.	(d)	Permittee, Responsible for Conduct of
Premises.  It shall be the duty of permittee to see that no secondhand goods
are sold or purchased by his agent or any other person in or upon the
permittee’s premises or location other than in the course of permittee’s
business.	(e)	Advertising Restrictions.  No permittee shall advertise any goods
for sale when such goods are not actually for sale at the premises at the time
the advertisement is inserted in the newspaper or medium.	Within 24 hours after
the sale of any goods that have been advertised for sale, the permittee shall
withdraw or cancel any advertisement relative to such goods.	(f)	Hold-Order.  A
police officer may place a hold-order upon property acquired by the permittee in
the course of his business, for a period of 90 days, and upon release of such
property, may require the permittee to keep a record of the disposition of such
property. It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of any property
contrary to any hold-order issued by a police officer.	(g)	Holding Period. 
Property acquired in the course of permittee’s business shall be reported and
held for such period of time as is fixed by rule and regulation of the
Board.	(h)	Violation.  No permittee shall clean, alter, repair or otherwise
change the appearance, melt, destroy, sell, export or otherwise dispose of any
article, goods, wares, merchandise, waste materials, junk or things obtained in
the course of his business until such articles have been held for the period
required by the Board.	(i)	Exemption. (Added by Ord. No. 158,621, Eff. 2/20/84.)
Any person engaging in, conducting, managing, selling, exchanging, displaying or
offering for sale or exchange, secondhand personal property at a swap meet is
exempt from Subsections (a) through (h), inclusive, of this section, and any
rules and regulations promulgated by the Board pursuant to said subsections, but
is subject to the following provisions and conditions:	1.	Definitions.  As used
in this subsection:	a.	“Swap Meet” means any event where secondhand goods
are offered or displayed for sale or exchange and	(1)	A fee is charged for the
privilege of offering or displaying secondhand goods for sale or exchange;
or	(2)	A fee is charged to prospective buyers for admission to the area where
secondhand goods are offered or displayed for sale or exchange.	b.	“Swap Meet
Operator” means any individual, partnership, corporation, business association
or other person or entity which sponsors, controls, manages or otherwise
conducts a swap meet.	c.	“Swap Meet Vendor” means any individual,
partnership, corporation, business association or other person or entity which
sells, exchanges, displays, or offers for sale or exchange, any secondhand goods
at a swap meet.	2.	Permit Required.  No person or entity shall operate a swap
meet without a written permit from the Board, except that a permit shall not be
required for any event sponsored by and for the exclusive benefit of any
community chest, fund, foundation, association or corporation organized and
operated solely for religious or charitable purposes provided that no portion of
any admission fee charged swap meet vendors or prospective purchasers, or the
receipts from the sale or exchange of new or secondhand goods, inures to the
benefit of any shareholder, officer, employee, person or entity organizing,
sponsoring or conducting such event.	a.	No permit shall be issued which will
permit the sale or display of firearms, flammables, and hash pipes or other
manipulative instruments relating to the use or consumption of drugs or their
derivatives.	b.	No permit shall be issued unless the swap meet operator has
first obtained a business tax registration certificate.	c.	No permit shall be
issued for a swap meet requiring a conditional use pursuant to Section 12.24 of
this Code until such conditional use has been obtained.	d.	When the Board has
determined that the cost of police investigation services will be increased
because of the operation of a swap meet, the Board may require the swap meet
operator to make payment into the general fund of the City of Los Angeles an
amount calculated at the current hourly rate of a Detective II for each hour of
investigation on a weekday and 150% of the current hourly rate of a Detective II
for each hour of investigation on a Saturday, Sunday or holiday involving the
swap meet, or up to a maximum of 16 hours per day of swap meet operation, plus
23.1% of such amount for administrative costs. The swap meet operator shall pay
the amount due to the Office of Finance within 30 days after the bill is mailed
to the swap meet operator by the Board. (Amended by Ord. No. 173,300, Eff.
6/30/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)	e.	A permit shall be issued, denied or revoked pursuant
to the provisions of this chapter; however, the Board shall place no other
conditions on the operation of a swap meet permitted pursuant to Section 12.24
of this Code other than those permitted by this subsection.	f.	Each swap meet
operator, prior to each swap meet, shall verify to the Police Department that
each swap meet vendor has consented to an inspection by a police officer of all
goods under such vendor’s control at the swap meet before permitting such
vendor to participate in the swap meet. Failure on the part of the swap meet
operator to verify the above information is grounds for the Police Department to
close the swap meet. (Added by Ord. No. 161,524, Eff. 8/17/86.)
