                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

GAMES OF SKILL AND SCIENCE. (§ 103.116)

  GAMES OF SKILL AND SCIENCE.	(a)	Definitions.  As used in this
article:	1.	“GAME OF SKILL AND SCIENCE” means any game of amusement, but not
including athletic sporting events, which is participated in by one or more
players for any prize, gift or award of anything of value where or when any
charge is made by the persons conducting, operating or maintaining such game, or
any consideration is paid by any player for the right to play or participate in
any such game, and the dominating factor in determining the result of such game
is dependent upon the skill of the player or players and not upon chance,
provided, that in any case where the result of such game may be dependent to
some extent upon the judgment, intelligence or adroitness of the player, but
nevertheless the dominating factor in determining the result of such game is
chance. Such a game shall not be considered as a game of skill and science, but
shall be considered as a game of chance.	(b)	Permit Required.  No person shall
engage in, manage, operate, maintain, conduct, carry on or permit, suffer or
allow the operation, maintenance, conducting or carrying on of any game of skill
and science without a written permit from the Board.	(c)	Findings of Board.  If
the Board finds that the game proposed to be conducted is a game of skill and
science and that such game is not prohibited by the provisions of Chapter 10,
Part 1, of the Penal Code of the State of California, or any other law of the
State of California, or any law of the City, and that the conducting, operating
or maintaining of such game at the location described in the application will
comport with the public welfare, the Board may grant such application and issue
a permit to conduct the same.	If in making its determination of the questions as
to whether the game proposed to be operated, conducted or maintained is a game
of skill and science or a game of chance, the Board is of the opinion that
although the result of such game is dependent to some extent upon judgment,
practice, intelligence or adroitness on the part of participants in such game
but nevertheless the dominating factor in determining the result of such game is
chance, the Board shall find that the proposed game is a game of chance and not
a game of skill and science, the application for permit shall be
denied.	(d)	Permits – Conditions.  Any such permit shall be issued upon and
subject to the following conditions:	1.	That such permittee will not permit,
suffer or allow the game authorized to be played in any manner other than the
manner described in detail in the application.	2.	That no equipment, apparatus,
device, material or contrivance of any kind be used in the conduct of or playing
of such game that is not described or referred to in the application.	3.	That
such permittee shall not give or award any prize, award, or gift to any
participant in any such game which is money, tokens, checks, warrants,
certificates, or chips exchangeable for money by the permittee, his agent or
employees; provided, that chips or tokens redeemable in or exchangeable for
merchandise or the right to further participation in such game, may be used in
playing the game authorized hereby;	4.	That such permittee will not and does not
enter into any agreement, combine or understanding with any person whatsoever to
the effect that either the permittee, his agent or someone acting for and on
behalf of himself as contractor, or otherwise, will buy any gift, prize or award
given or awarded to any participant in any game, or exchange any such gift,
prize or award for money.	Each of said conditions shall be incorporated in and
made a part of each permit issued hereunder.	No person shall conduct, operate or
maintain any such game, or permit, suffer or allow the conducting, operation or
maintenance of any game in any manner or mode except in accordance with and in
strict conformance with all of the conditions set forth in this
subsection.	(e)	Summary Revocation.  If the permittee, his agent, employee or
servant acting for and on behalf of such permittee in connection with the
operation, maintenance or conduct of any game, is convicted in any court of
having violated any law of the State of California prohibiting or regulating
gaming, or of having violated any of the laws of this City prohibiting or
regulating gaming, all permits therefore issued to such permittee shall be
revoked by the Board immediately upon the filing of a certified copy of final
judgment of conviction of the court with the Board and without hearing or
previous notice.	(f)	Games Prohibited by Law.  No permit issued by the Board
shall authorize the conduct of any game which is prohibited by the Penal Code of
California or any other law of the State of California or of this City. Any
permit issued in violation of the provisions of this section shall be
void.	(g)	Public Hearings. (Amended by Ord. No. 137,649, Eff. 1/6/69.)  The
Board shall require a public hearing prior to taking action on an application
for a permit pursuant to this section. The applicant shall cause to be published
a notice of public hearing two times at intervals of not less than five days,
within the 21-day period following the filing of an application, in a newspaper
of general circulation in the district where the business is to be located. The
Board shall cause a suitable public notice to be posted at the location where
the business is to be conducted. The applicant shall bear all expense involved
in printing, publishing and posting such notice. Such public notice shall
conform to rules and regulations adopted by the Board and shall be designed to
inform the public as to the nature of the business to be engaged in, its
location, the names of the applicant or applicants, the time of the public
hearing and the right of persons objecting to be heard. Any interested person
may file written protests or objections or appear at the hearing. The Board
shall give consideration to all such protests in reaching a decision on such
application.
