                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PROCEDURES FOR FURTHER REGULATION. (§ 104.114)

  PROCEDURES FOR FURTHER REGULATION.	A.	The City shall not impose new
regulatory requirements to pay a living wage exceeding applicable state or
federal minimum wage requirements upon any business entity that does not have a
business relationship with the City of Los Angeles in the future unless the City
Council first secures a study that looks at the effects such a regulation would
have:	1.	on the industry and/or geographic location targeted, including any
potential relocation or cessation of any business;	2.	on the consumers or
clients served by the industry and/or geographic location, including any
increase in pricing they might face; and	3.	on the City’s and/or geographic
location’s ability to retain and attract new business to the area.	Such a
study shall include an opportunity for public input, and the City Council will
hear public testimony regarding the study at least two weeks before acting on
any living wage proposal.	B.	The City shall not impose new regulatory
requirements to pay a living wage unless the industry and region to be regulated
receive business benefits stemming from a City asset that match or exceed the
benefit from proximity to LAX received by Hotels in the Airport Hospitality
Enhancement Zone.  Such benefits must be significant, but shall not include any
of the following:	1.	use of city streets or sidewalks by customers or employees
to access the businesses;	2.	purchase of water and/or electrical power by the
businesses from the City or Department of Water and Power;	3.	provision of
ordinary police, fire, and paramedic services to persons at the
businesses;	4.	City refuse collection from the businesses;	5.	building or
premises inspection by City departments for safety, emergency preparedness,
and/or compliance with applicable regulation;	6.	business or customer use of
City facilities open to the general public; or	7.	any other City service
provided throughout the City to the general public and/or private
businesses.	C.	Notwithstanding the foregoing, the City shall not apply the
requirements in the preceding section if the industry to be regulated has so
many employees being paid less than living wage as to have a significant
negative effect on the City economy as a whole.  The industry in question must
have more than 15,000 employees working in the City.  Before acting on such a
proposal, the City Council will request a panel of three economists to submit a
written report to Council presenting their expert opinion as to whether the
industry to be regulated has more than 15,000 employees working in the City and
that the number of employees being paid less than a living wage is so
substantial as to have a significant negative effect on the City economy as a
whole.  The panel of three economists shall have one member selected by the
County Federation of Labor, one member selected by the Los Angeles Area Chamber
of Commerce, and one member selected by the other two members.	D.	None of the
procedures or intended requirements in this section shall apply to any living
wage regulation that the City Council and Mayor decide to place before the
voters for approval before the regulation takes effect.
