                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEFINITIONS. (§ 104.102)

  DEFINITIONS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 181,199, Eff. 7/24/10.)	The following definitions shall
apply to this article:	A.	“Adoption Date” means February 26,
2007.	B.	“City” means the City of Los Angeles.	C.	“Hotel” means a
residential building located within the Airport Hospitality Enhancement Zone
that is designated or used for lodging and other related services for the
public, and containing 50 or more guest rooms, or suites of rooms.  “Hotel”
also includes any contracted, leased, or sublet premises connected to or
operated in conjunction with the building’s purpose or providing services at
the building.  If the Century Corridor Property Business Improvement District
ceases to exist, the boundaries at the time of dissolution shall remain in
effect for purposes of this article.	D.	“Hotel Employer” means a Person who
owns, controls, and/or operates a Hotel, or a Person who owns, controls, and/or
operates any contracted, leased, or sublet premises connected to or operated in
conjunction with the Hotel’s purpose, or a Person who provides services at the
Hotel.	E.	“Hotel Worker” means any individual (1) whose primary place of
employment is at a Hotel, and (2) who is employed directly by the Hotel
Employer, or by a Person who has contracted with the Hotel Employer to provide
services at the Hotel.  “Hotel Worker” does not include a managerial,
supervisory, or confidential employee.	F.	“Person” means an individual,
corporation, partnership, limited partnership, limited liability partnership,
limited liability company, business trust, estate, trust, association, joint
venture, agency, instrumentality, or any other legal or commercial entity,
whether domestic or foreign.	G.	“Service Charge” means all
separately-designated amounts collected by a Hotel Employer from customers that
are for service by Hotel Workers, or are described in such a way that customers
might reasonably believe that the amounts are for the service, including but not
limited to those charges designated on receipts under the term “service
charge”, “delivery charge”, or “porterage charge”.	H.	“Willful
Violation” means that the Hotel Employer deliberately failed or refused to
comply with the provisions of this article.
