                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

THE AIRPORT HOSPITALITY ENHANCEMENT ZONE. (§ 104.103)

  THE AIRPORT HOSPITALITY ENHANCEMENT ZONE.	A.	Establishment of Zone. There is
hereby established an Airport Hospitality Enhancement Zone.  shall be the area
designated by the boundaries of the Gateway to LA Property Business Improvement
District (Gateway to LA PBID), established by Ordinance Number 177,211. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 181,199, Eff. 7/24/10.)	B.	Enhancements.  The City shall
create enhanced and expanded City investments and incentives in the Airport
Hospitality Enhancement Zone, including:	1.	Conference Center.	a.	The City shall
complete within 180 days of the effective date of the ordinance a study of
possible locations for a conference center, including consideration of sites
under control of City or LAWA.	b.	The City shall complete within 180 days of the
effective date of the ordinance a study of possible mechanisms to finance the
construction and establishment of a conference center in the Airport Hospitality
Enhancement Zone.	c.	The City shall investigate LAWA participation in the
financing of a conference center in the Airport Hospitality Enhancement
Zone.	2.	Workforce Development.	a.	CDD shall implement within 180 days of the
effective date of the ordinance a workforce training program, which shall
include one or more of customer service training, hospitality training,
management training, and/or culinary arts training, for Hotel Workers. 
Training will occur at a location within the Airport Hospitality Enhancement
Zone or within five miles to the Airport Hospitality Enhancement Zone. 
Program(s) shall make this training available to 120 Hotel Workers per year for
five years beginning in FY 2008-09.  The City shall determine appropriate
funding from among federal, state, and City funds.  (Amended by Ord. No.
181,199, Eff. 7/24/10.)	b.	CDD shall facilitate the provision of English as a
Second Language courses by the Los Angeles Unified School District Adult
Education Division or the Los Angeles Community College District, to Hotel
Workers, with courses provided at Hotels where feasible and requested by Hotels
in the Airport Hospitality Enhancement Zone.	3.	Marketing.	a.	The City shall
cause to be developed a program to market Hotels and other services in the
Airport Hospitality Enhancement Zone.	b.	The City shall grant $50,000 to the
Gateway to LA PBID to prepare a market analysis and to develop materials and
data from the analysis to use in attracting new business to the Airport
Hospitality Enhancement Zone.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,199, Eff.
7/24/10.)	4.	Business Development.	a.	In order to address office vacancy and
generate business for Hotels in the Airport Hospitality Enhancement Zone, the
Office of Finance shall develop and recommend within 90 days of the effective
date of this ordinance a time-limited cap or reduction in business taxes for
businesses that relocate from outside the City to vacant space in the Airport
Hospitality Enhancement Zone.	b.	In order to address the need for retail and
restaurant services in the area and to generate business for Hotels in the
Airport Hospitality Enhancement Zone, the Office of Finance shall develop and
recommend within 90 days of the effective date of this ordinance a time-limited
cap or reduction in business taxes for retail and restaurant businesses that
open a new location in the Zone without closing any other location, if any, in
the City.	5.	Street Improvements.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,199, Eff.
7/24/10.)	a.	Department of Transportation shall develop within two years and
implement within three years a program of directional/navigational signage to
direct drivers to Hotels, rental car agencies, and other airport-related
services in the Airport Hospitality Enhancement Zone.	b.	Following adoption of
this ordinance, Bureau of Street Services commenced construction of a $1 million
set of street improvements, including new median islands, landscaping,
refurbishment, and signage, for the portion of Century Boulevard between
Aviation Boulevard and La Cienega Boulevard.	c.	Bureau of Street Services shall
develop within 180 days of the effective date of this ordinance a plan to
identify and expedite needed street and alley resurfacing and sidewalk repair in
the Airport Hospitality Enhancement Zone, and shall commence this plan within
180 days of the effective date of this ordinance.	d.	CAO and Bureau of Street
Services shall report within 180 days of the effective date of this ordinance on
options to finance and commence within one year construction of new sidewalks in
the Airport Hospitality Enhancement Zone to facilitate pedestrian access from
Hotels to public transit.	6.	Remote Check-In.  LAWA shall facilitate the
establishment of remote check-in facilities at each interested Hotel in Zone,
including providing assistance as necessary to expedite or prioritize the
establishment of these facilities as the network of region wide check-in
locations grows.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,199, Eff. 7/24/10.)	7.	Power Rate
Incentive.  The City shall investigate the feasibility of extending existing
Enterprise and Empowerment Zone subsidized rate for electric power, or creating
a new business development incentive rate to reduce office vacancy for buildings
located within the Airport Hospitality Enhancement Zone.	8.	Integrated Waste
Management.  In order to assist in realizing cost savings on hauling fees,
Bureau of Sanitation shall work with interested businesses in the Airport
Hospitality Enhancement Zone and Gateway to LA PBID to develop and implement
within one year of the effective date of this ordinance a joint recycling and
waste diversion program.  Bureau of Sanitation’s offered technical assistance
shall include assistance in preparation of necessary bid documents, assistance
in review of proposals and contract negotiations, preparation of outreach
materials for staff, and training of staff.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,199, Eff.
7/24/10.)
