                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PAYMENT OF MINIMUM COMPENSATION TO HOTEL WORKERS. (§ 104.104)

  PAYMENT OF MINIMUM COMPENSATION TO HOTEL WORKERS.	A.	Wages.  In accordance
with Section 104.106 of this Article, Hotel Employers shall pay Hotel Workers a
wage of no less than the hourly rates set under the authority of this article. 
The minimum compensation for each Hotel Worker shall be at least $9.39 per hour
with health benefits, not including gratuities, Service Charge distributions, or
bonuses, or $10.64 per hour without health benefits, not including gratuities,
Service Charge distributions, or bonuses.  Starting July 1, 2009, and
continuing thereafter, these rates shall continue to be adjusted as of July 1 of
each year to be the same dollar amounts as the wage rates at such dates adjusted
pursuant to Section 10.37.2(a) of the Los Angeles Administrative Code. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 181,199, Eff. 7/24/10.)	B.	Compensated Days Off.  Hotel
Employers shall provide Hotel Workers at least twelve accrued compensated days
off per year for sick leave, vacation, or personal necessity at the Hotel
Worker’s request.  Hotel Employers shall also permit Hotel Workers to take at
least an additional ten accrued days a year of uncompensated time to be used for
sick leave for the illness of the Hotel Worker or a member of his or her
immediate family where the Hotel Worker has exhausted his or her compensated
days off for that year.	C.	Mandatory Study.  After two years from the effective
date of this ordinance, the CAO shall conduct a study and evaluation of the
effect of this article on Hotels, Hotel customers, and Hotel Workers in the
Airport Hospitality Enhancement Zone.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,199, Eff.
7/24/10.)	1.	The study shall include consideration of:	a.	the economic impact of
the living wage requirement on Hotels and Hotel Workers, including any effects
on worker retention and/or training;	b.	the effects of having a non-tiered
living wage requirement that applies to tipped and non-tipped Hotel Workers
alike, including any wage compression among hotel employees and the effects of
such compression on worker retention; and	c.	the impact of the enhancements
described in section 104.103 on Hotel customer base, income, and retention and
training of Hotel Workers.	2.	If the study is not completed within thirty months
from the date of the effective date of this ordinance, the living wage
provisions of this ordinance shall be suspended until the report is completed. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 181,199, Eff. 7/24/10.)
