                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

HEALTH BENEFITS. (§ 104.105)

  HEALTH BENEFITS.	A.	Rate.  Health benefits under this article shall consist
of the payment of at least $1.25 per hour towards the provision of health care
benefits for Hotel Workers and their dependents.  Proof of the provision of
these benefits must be kept on file by the Hotel Employer, if
applicable.	B.	Mandatory Study.  Within eight months of the effective date of
this ordinance, the CAO shall complete a study of health benefits availability
for Hotel Workers.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,199, Eff. 7/24/10.)	1.	The study
shall include consideration of:  	a.	available health benefits plans at
businesses with similarly-sized employment forces, whether such plans generally
require employee contribution and/or co-payments, and the amount of such
employee contributions and/or co-payments; 	b.	prevailing, well-supported
expert views, if any, on whether employee contributions and/or co-payments have
a negative or positive effect on the cost of health care or on the quality of
health care provided; and	c.	the City’s ability, including applicable legal
constraints, to secure high-quality health benefits for workers through
regulation such as this article.	2.	Upon completion of the study, the CAO shall
also recommend whether the City should consider adjusting its living wage
regulation for those Hotel Employers providing health benefits, for example by
increasing the amount of the health benefits credit available to Hotel Employer
or by permitting reasonable employee contributions or co-payments limited by
regulation.  If the study is not completed within 9 months from the date of the
effective date of this ordinance, the living wage provisions of this ordinance
shall be suspended until the report is completed.	C.	This article is not
intended to decrease the availability or utilization of employer-provided health
benefits.  The Hotel Employer has the sole choice whether or not to offer
health benefits within the meaning of the section.
