                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PURPOSE. (§ 104.101)

  PURPOSE.

	The Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) is among the world’s busiest
airports, hosting millions of travelers every year.  The Century Boulevard
Corridor (Corridor) situated immediately adjacent to LAX serves as both the
welcome mat to the City and the gateway to LAX.  The Corridor, which greatly
and uniquely benefits from its proximity to LAX, could benefit even more from
strategic public investments, especially infrastructure improvements,
neighborhood beautification, and a conference center.  Accordingly, it is the
City’s intent to promote the economic vitality of the Corridor by designating
it as an Airport Hospitality Enhancement Zone within which the City will target
new City resources, investment and benefits.

	The hotels in the Corridor will not only derive significant and unique business
benefits from their close proximity to LAX, a major public and City asset that
produces numerous patrons of these hotels on a daily basis, but from the
City’s designation of the Corridor as an Airport Hospitality Enhancement
Zone.  These benefits are unique as compared to any other industry in any other
region of the City.  Accordingly, the City finds that it is appropriate to
impose a regulatory requirement to pay a living wage on certain hotels in the
Corridor, a requirement that has not otherwise been imposed except upon
companies with certain types of business relationships with the City.  The
City, as a provider of social support services and significant benefits through
the City’s designation of the Corridor as an Airport Hospitality Enhancement
Zone, has an interest in promoting an employment environment that protects
government resources and engages in responsible employment practices.  In
requiring the payment of a higher minimum level of compensation, this article
benefits that interest.

	By way of this ordinance, the City seeks to improve and encourage the
continuing growth and development of the business community in the Century
Boulevard Corridor, while simultaneously improving the welfare of service
workers at LAX-area hotels by ensuring that they receive decent compensation for
the work they perform.  This ordinance provides for an investment in the
workers, the local businesses, and the City at large by setting forth a plan
that supports the labor and business communities located in the area adjacent to
LAX.
