                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

BAD CHECK COLLECTION FEES. (§ 11.07)

  BAD CHECK COLLECTION FEES.
	(Added by Ord. No. 124,508, Eff. 6/6/63.)	(a)	(Amended by Ord. No. 143,860,
Eff. 10/30/72.)  Whenever any person pays any fee, charge, deposit, or amount
due the City by check, and said check proves to be non-negotiable or is
unhonored, the following fee can be charged to and collected from such person in
addition to the full amount of the fee, charge, deposit, or amount otherwise
due:	$10.00 for each nonnegotiable or unhonored check. (Amended by Ord. No.
157,613, Eff. 5/26/83.)	$25.00 per hour or fraction thereof for any
investigation which is made necessary in order to collect or receive an money
due after seven calendar days from the date said check was
received.	EXCEPTIONS:	1.	Any department, division, office or bureau of this City
may, by resolution of its board of commissioners, or if none, by order of its
general manager, decline to enforce the provisions of this section with respect
to those fees, charges deposits, or other amounts which it has the duty of
collecting if it determines that collection of the fees provided for in this
section is unreasonable or unnecessary. The controller shall be promptly
notified of each such action.	2.	The chief accounting employee of each
department, division, office or bureau of this City enforcing this section may
waive the fees provided for herein if he determines that such fees are not
collectible without unreasonable cost to the City, and the full amount of all
fees, charges, deposits, or other amounts for which the non-negotiable or
unhonored check has been written has been collected. The Controller shall be
promptly notified of each such action. (Amended by Ord. No. 157,202, Eff.
12/11/82.)	(b)	This section shall not apply to checks which are returned or
unhonored due solely to acknowledged bank error and the check is made good
within three days after its original return.	(c)	Any person who presents a
non-negotiable or unhonored check in payment of fees or charges established by
this Code may be placed on a cash-only payment basis by the enforcing
department, office, division or bureau for that payment and future payments.
(Amended by Ord. No. 157,613, Eff. 5/26/83.)	(d)	All fees imposed and collected
under the provisions of this section shall be deposited in the General
Fund.	(e)	There shall be no implementation of Exceptions 1 or 2 of this section
unless the concerned department head has approved and caused to be filed and
kept current with the Controller a statement of departmental policies and
procedures wherein collection of fees under this section shall not be required
and may be waived. The procedures shall require that the department head notify
the Controller in each instance of any waiver of fee and identify in that notice
to the Controller the specific policy or procedure applicable in the instance
involved.  (Amended by Ord. No. 157,202, Eff. 12/11/82.)
