                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS – UNCOLLECTIBLE CANCELLATION. (§ 11.04)

  DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS – UNCOLLECTIBLE CANCELLATION.
	(Added by Ord. No. 107,216, Eff. 5/5/56.)	If any board, commission, or head of
any department finds that any money is due, or believed to be due the City as
and for fees for permits, or resulting from the issuance of any permit, or as
the result of the contemplated issuance of a permit, or resulting from any
services performed by the City at the special instance and request of the
debtor, or resulting from any act of the debtor, and is uncollectible, or that
efforts to collect any such sum would be disproportionately costly with relation
to the probable outcome of the collecting efforts, such board, commission, or
head of a department, may prepare a report setting forth the findings and
reasons therefor and submit said findings and reasons to a Board of Review
consisting of the Controller, the City Treasurer and the City Attorney, or the
duly appointed representative of each. Upon unanimous approval of the findings
by the Board of Review, the board, commission or head of the department
concerned, may remove from the active accounts receivable of such board,
commission or department any unpaid sum owing, or believed to be owing to the
City from any person, when the account involved is less than the sum of
$1000.00. If the report relates to an obligation or claim owing, or believed to
be owing to the City, which amounts to $1000.00 or more, the Board of Review
shall make its recommendations upon the findings, and if the Board of Review
unanimously approved the findings it shall submit them to the Council together
with the findings of the Board, Commission or head of a department. If the Board
of Review does not unanimously approve the findings, the matter shall be
returned to the board, commission or head of the department. Upon the approval
of the findings by the Council, the board, commission or head of the department
concerned may remove from the active accounts receivable the amount so approved.
The removal from the active accounts receivable of any board, commission or head
of a department of any unpaid obligation as hereinabove provided, shall not
preclude the City from collection or attempting to collect any such sum that
later proves to be collectible. Should any such sum so owing to the City not be
collected within the period of the Statute of Limitations of the State of
California, and applicable to any such obligation, then the board, commission or
head of a department may  write off and cancel said obligation. (Amended by
Ord. No. 157,016, Eff. 9/24/82.)
