                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION. (§ 11.01)

  DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION.	(a)	The following words and phrases whenever
used in this Code shall be construed as defined in this section unless from the
context a different meaning is intended, or unless a different meaning is
specifically defined and more particularly directed to the use of such words or
phrases:	“City” shall mean the area within the territorial city limits of
the City of Los Angeles and such territory outside of this City over which the
City has jurisdiction or control by virtue of any Constitutional or Charter
provision, or any law, “Council” shall mean the City Council of this City.
“Oath” includes affirmation.	“Find” or “Finding” shall mean a
written finding.  (Added by Ord. No. 182,095, Eff. 5/7/12.)	“Health
Department” or “Department of Health,” after 6/30/64, shall mean the Los
Angeles County Health Department. (Added by Ord. No. 127,508, Eff.
6/29/64.)	“Health Officer” or “Health Authority” or “Board of Health
Commissioners,” after 6/30/64, shall mean the County Health Officer of the
County of Los Angeles, or his duly authorized representative (Added by Ord. No.
127,508, Eff. 6/29/64.)	“Office”.  The use of the title of any officer,
employee, or any office or ordinance or Charter shall mean such officer,
employee, office, ordinance or Charter of the City of Los Angeles unless
otherwise specifically designated.	“Person” shall mean natural person, joint
venture, joint stock company, partnership, association, club, company,
corporation, business trust, or organization, or the manager, lessee, agent,
servant, officer or employee of any of them.	“Planning Committee” shall mean
the Planning and Land Use Management Committee of the City Council. (Added by
Ord. No. 164,740, Eff. 5/27/89, Oper. 7/1/89.)	“Shall” and “May.” 
“Shall” is mandatory; “May” is permissive.	“Street” shall include
all streets, highways, avenues lanes, alleys, courts places, squares, curbs or
other public ways in this City which have been or may hereafter he dedicated and
open to public use, or such other public property so designated in any law of
this State.	There is nothing in the context of the Los Angeles Municipal Code
.&thinsp;.&thinsp;.  which justifies holding that the word streets is used
therein to designate a “roadway” exclusive of is sidewalks.  Unless it is
associated with language restricting its meaning, the term street in its
ordinary acceptation, includes sidewalks.
	People v. Noble. Cr.A 1498.	See also Note 11(a) 44 C.J. p 883; Bonnett v San
Francisco, 65 Cal 230; Marini v. Graham, 67 Cal l30, 132; Ex parte Taylor, 87
Cal. 91, 94; Vanderhurst v. Tholcke, 113 Cal. 147, 150.	“Written” shall
include printed, typewritten, mimeographed or multigraphed.	(b)	Grammatical
Interpretation.	“Genders.”  Any gender includes the other
genders.	“Singular and Plural.”  The singular number includes the plural,
and the plural, the singular.	“Tenses.”  Words used in the present tense
include the past and future tenses and vice versa	“Use of Words and
Phrases.”  Words and phrases used in this Code and not specifically defined
shall be construed according to the context and approved usage of the
language	(c)	Civil Code Provisions.  The provisions of Sections 13 and 1645 of
the Civil Code of the State of California are hereby adopted in the
interpretation of words and phrases, unless otherwise provided herein.
