                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

USE OF THE METRIC SYSTEM OF MEASURE AS AN ALTERNATIVE SYSTEM OF MEASUREMENT (§
11.11)

  USE OF THE METRIC SYSTEM OF MEASURE AS AN ALTERNATIVE SYSTEM OF MEASUREMENT
	(Added by Ord. No. 171,464, Eff. 2/6/97.)	(a)	Scope.  This section shall apply
to any activity or work of any Bureau or Department of the City engaged in
administering or enforcing any City ordinances, State or Federal enactments or
any regulations where units of distance, weight or force are used in any
regulatory, enforcement, design or control activity or posting of
limits.	(b)	Use of Metric System of Measure Authorized.	1.	Notwithstanding any
provision of this Code to the contrary, commencing with the effective date of
this ordinance, any Bureau or Department of the City may use the metric system
of measure in enforcing any enactments, statutes, ordinances, codes or
regulations subject to its jurisdiction; provided, however, that such use is not
contrary to any applicable State of California  or Federal regulations or
enactments.	2.	The metric system of measure authorized by this section is that
system of units and measurements defined and described in the Federal Metric
Conversion Act of 1975 (15 U.S.C. 2056) and commonly referred to as the
‘System Internationale d’Unites’.	3.	It is intended that whenever any City
code or ordinance contains an Imperial unit of measure that the equivalent unit
in metric measure may be used and that the conversion shall be made using
nationally recognized conversion factors.  Where metric units are used, all
metric values shall be direct conversions of the values expressed in the
official enactment, ordinance, code or regulation.  In the case of linear
measurements, conversion shall be based on the Standard U.S. Survey Foot defined
as 0.3048006 parts of a meter.  Converted values may be rounded to a reasonable
number of decimal places; provided however that no such rounding shall result in
any increase in any fee collected or dedication or taking of land, any increase
in any upper or lower limit of speed or any reduction in any standard of minimum
clearance.	(c)	Public Notice.  Prior to commencing the use of the metric system
of measure a public notice of intent to do so shall be approved by the governing
officer or body of the Department.  The notice shall identify the Department or
Bureau proposing the use of the metric system of values and shall enumerate the
provisions containing the numeric values and measurements that will be
converted.  The notice shall further state whether or not a dual system of
measurement will be permitted.  After approval by the Department, the notice
shall be transmitted to the City Council which may approve or disapprove the
notice by resolution.  After approval by the City Council the notice shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation for a period not less than 30
days or for such longer period as may be applicable where a longer notice period
is specified for an amendment to any code.
