                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

GENERAL PLAN. (§ 11.5.6)

  GENERAL PLAN.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)	Pursuant to Charter
Section 555, the City’s comprehensive may be adopted, and amended from time to
time, either as a whole, by complete subject elements, by geographic areas or by
portions of elements or areas, provided that any area or portion of an area has
significant social, economic or physical identity.	A.	Amendments.  Amendments
to the General Plan of the City shall be initiated, prepared and acted upon in
accordance with the procedures set forth in Charter Section 555 and this
section.	B.	Initiation of Plan Amendment.  As provided in Charter Section 555,
an amendment to the General Plan may be initiated by the Council, the City
Planning Commission or the Director of Planning.  Initiations by the Council or
City Planning Commission shall be by majority vote.  If an amendment is
initiated by the Council or City Planning Commission, then it shall be
transmitted to the Director for report and recommendation to the City Planning
Commission.	Whether initiated by the Director, the Council or the City Planning
Commission, the Director shall prepare the amendment and a report recommending
action by the City Planning Commission.  The report shall contain an
explanation of the reasons for the action recommended.	After the Director
prepares a Plan amendment and report, the Director shall transmit the file to
the City Planning Commission for its action.	C.	Action by City Planning
Commission on Proposed Amendments.	1.	Notice and Hearing.  Before the City
Planning Commission acts on a proposed Plan amendment and the Director’s
recommendation, the matter shall be set for a public hearing.  The City
Planning Commission may hold the hearing itself or may direct the Director to
hold the hearing.  In either event, notice of the time, place and purpose of
the hearing shall be given by at least one publication in a newspaper of general
circulation in the City (designated for this purpose by the City Clerk), at
least ten days prior to the date of the hearing.  Notice shall also be mailed
to any person requesting notice of the hearing.	At the time of the hearing, the
City Planning Commission or the Director shall hear public testimony from anyone
wishing to be heard on the matter.  The City Planning Commission or the
Director may continue the hearing to another date announced publicly at the
hearing being continued; no additional notice of the continued hearing need be
given.  If the hearing is conducted by the Director, he or she shall submit a
report to the City Planning Commission summarizing the information received. 
The report may also contain a recommendation to the City Planning Commission
regarding its action on the proposed amendment.  The Director shall file his or
her report with the City Planning Commission after the close of the
hearing.	2.	City Planning Commission Action.  After receiving the Director’s
report, or after the close of a public hearing conducted by the City Planning
Commission, the City Planning Commission shall recommend to the Mayor and the
Council that the proposed amendment be approved or disapproved in whole or in
part.  The City Planning Commission’s report to the Mayor and the Council
shall set forth the Commission’s reasons for its recommendation.	The City
Planning Commission shall act within 90 days after receiving the Director’s
report pursuant to Subsection B.  If the City Planning Commission fails to do
so, the City Planning Commission’s failure to act shall be deemed a
recommendation for approval of the Plan amendment.	If the City Planning
Commission recommends approval of any proposed Plan amendment or disapproval of
either a proposed amendment initiated by the Director or the Council, the
Commission shall transmit as soon as possible those actions to the Mayor for
consideration and report to the Council.  If the City Planning Commission
recommends the disapproval of a Plan Amendment initiated by it, the City
Planning Commission shall report its decision to the Council and
Mayor.	D.	Action by the Mayor on Proposed Amendments.  Within 30 days after
receipt of the City Planning Commission’s recommendation, the Mayor shall make
a recommendation to the Council on the proposed Plan amendment.  The Mayor’s
report to the Council shall set forth the Mayor’s reasons for his or her
recommendation.  If the Mayor does not act within the 30-day period, the
Mayor’s inaction shall be deemed a recommendation for approval of the Plan
amendment.	E.	Action by the Council on Proposed Amendments.  After receiving
the recommendations of the City Planning Commission and the Mayor, or at the
expiration of the 30-day period for the Mayor to act, the Council shall hold a
public hearing on the proposed Plan amendment.	After the close of the public
hearing, the Council may do either of the following:  (Amended by Ord. No.
177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)	1.	Approve or disapprove the Plan amendment in whole or
in part in accordance with Charter Section 555(e); or	2.	Propose changes to the
Plan amendment.	The Council shall take either of these actions within 75 days
after receiving the recommendation of the Mayor, or within 75 days after the
expiration of the Mayor’s time to act if the Mayor has not made a timely
recommendation.  The failure of the Council to act within that 75-day period
shall constitute a disapproval of the Plan amendment.  (Amended by Ord. No.
177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)	In accordance with Charter Section 555(e), if both the
City Planning Commission and the Mayor recommend approval of a proposed
amendment, the Council may adopt the amendment by a majority vote.  If either
the City Planning Commission or the Mayor recommends the disapproval of a
proposed amendment, the Council may adopt the amendment only by at least a
two-thirds vote.  If both the City Planning Commission and the Mayor recommend
the disapproval of a proposed amendment, the Council may adopt the amendment
only by at least a three-fourths vote.	F.	Proposed Changes by the Council.  If
the Council proposes changes to the Plan amendment that differ from the
amendment as initiated or the recommendation of the City Planning Commission,
the matter shall be returned simultaneously to the City Planning Commission and
the Mayor for their recommendations on the proposed changes.  In acting on
those changes, the City Planning Commission and the Mayor shall follow the
procedures set forth above for their initial action.  The City Planning
Commission shall act within 60 days of receipt of the Council’s proposed
change.  The Mayor shall act within 30 days of the receipt of the City Planning
Commission’s recommendation on the proposed change, or the expiration of the
time for the City Planning Commission to act if the Commission fails to make a
timely recommendation.  If either the City Planning Commission or the Mayor
does not act within the time period, that inaction shall be deemed a
recommendation of approval of the proposed changes.  The recommendations of the
Commission and the Mayor on any changes made by the Council shall affect only
those changes.  The Council shall act to approve or disapprove, in whole or in
part, the Plan amendment, including the Council’s changes, within 120 days
after receiving both the City Planning Commission’s and the Mayor’s
recommendations on the Council’s proposed changes, or the expiration of their
time to act on those changes.
