                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SPECIFIC PLAN PROCEDURES. (§ 11.5.7)

  SPECIFIC PLAN PROCEDURES.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,455, Eff. 9/22/00.)	A.	Definition, Purpose and
Objectives.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  A specific plan is
a regulatory land use ordinance specifically designated in the ordinance as a
specific plan.  A specific plan shall provide by ordinance regulatory controls
or incentives for the systematic execution of the General Plan and shall provide
for public needs, convenience and general welfare.  Except as otherwise
provided by this section, procedures for the establishment, amendment or repeal
of specific plans are set forth in Section 12.32.	The objectives of this section
are as follows:	1.	To establish uniform citywide procedures for review of
applications for projects within specific plan areas in accordance with
applicable specific plan requirements and the City Charter; and	2.	To establish
uniform citywide standards and criteria for processing applications for
exceptions from, amendments to and interpretations of specific
plans.	B.	Relationship To Provisions of Specific Plans.  If any procedure
established in a specific plan conflicts with any procedure set forth in this
section, the provisions of this section shall prevail.	1.	Definitions.  For the
purpose of this section, the following words and phrases are defined as
follows:	Project Permit Compliance shall mean a decision by the Director that a
project complies with the regulations of the applicable specific plan, either as
submitted or with conditions imposed to achieve compliance.	Project Permit
Adjustment shall mean a decision on a project by the Director granting a minor
adjustment from certain specific plan regulations, subject to the limitations
specified by this section.	2.	Application Procedure.	(a)	Application, Form and
Contents.  To apply for a Project Permit Compliance, a Project Permit
Adjustment, modification of a Project Permit Compliance, specific plan
exception, or to request a specific plan amendment or specific plan
interpretation, an applicant shall file an application with the Department of
City Planning, on a form provided by the Department, and include all information
required by the instructions on the application and any applicable adopted
guidelines.  Prior to deeming the application complete, the Director shall
determine and, if necessary, advise the applicant of the processes to be
followed and fees to be paid.	(b)	Application Fees.  The application fees for a
Project Permit Compliance, Project Permit Adjustment, specific plan exception,
request for a specific plan amendment and specific plan interpretation shall be
as set forth in Section 19.01J.	C.	Project Permit Compliance Review – Director
of Planning With Appeal to the Area Planning Commission.	1.	Director’s
Authority.  The Director shall have the initial decision-making authority to
decide whether an application for a project within a specific plan area is in
conformance with the regulations established by this subsection and in
compliance with applicable regulations of the specific plan.  In addition, the
Director shall have the authority to determine what type of projects are exempt
from these Project Permit Compliance procedures based on exemption provisions
and other regulations contained in individual specific plans.	(a)	The Director
shall review and approve, disapprove or approve with conditions an application
for a Project Permit Compliance.	(b)	In granting a Project Permit Compliance,
the Director shall require compliance with the applicable regulations of the
specific plan and mitigation of significant adverse effects of the project on
the environment and surrounding areas.	2.	Findings.  The Director shall grant a
Project Permit Compliance upon written findings that the project satisfies each
of the following requirements:	(a)	That the project substantially complies with
the applicable regulations, findings, standards and provisions of the specific
plan; and (Amended by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)	(b)	That the project
incorporates mitigation measures, monitoring measures when necessary, or
alternatives identified in the environmental review which would mitigate the
negative environmental effects of the project, to the extent physically
feasible.	3.	Limitations.  The granting of a Project Permit Compliance shall
not imply compliance with any other applicable provisions of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code.  Any corrections and/or modifications to project plans made
subsequent to a Director’s Project Permit Compliance that are deemed necessary
by the Department of Building and Safety for Building Code compliance, and which
involve a change in floor area, parking, building height, yards or setbacks,
building separation or lot coverage, shall require a referral of the revised
plans back to the Department of City Planning (and the Department of
Transportation in cases where there are corrections and/or modifications that
may affect the calculation of vehicle trips generated, project floor area or
parking) for additional review and sign-off prior to the issuance of any permit
in connection with those plans.	4.	Director’s Decision.	(a)	Time Limit.  The
Director shall make a written decision approving, disapproving or approving with
conditions a Project Permit Compliance application within 75 days after:	(1)	the
date the application is deemed complete; or	(2)	when an environmental impact
report (EIR) is required, the date the EIR is certified as complete consistent
with State law.	This time limit may be extended by mutual consent of the
Director and the applicant.  The time limit may also be extended as provided in
Section 12.25 A.	(b)	Transmittal of Written Decision.  Upon making a written
decision, the Director shall transmit a copy by First Class Mail to the
applicant.  Copies shall also be provided to: the Department of Building and
Safety; the Councilmember(s) having jurisdiction over the specific plan area in
which the property is located; the Department of Transportation, where
appropriate; owners of all properties abutting, across the street or alley from,
or having a common corner with the subject property; the Department of
Neighborhood Empowerment; the chairperson of any design review or plan review
board having jurisdiction over the specific plan area in which the property is
located; and interested parties who have filed written requests with the City
Planning Department.	(c)	Effective Date of Initial Decision.  The Director’s
Project Permit Compliance shall become effective after an elapsed period of 15
calendar days from the date of mailing of the written decision, unless an appeal
is filed on the decision within that period pursuant to Subdivision 6. of this
subsection.	(d)	Applicant’s Compliance with Project Permit Compliance Terms
and Conditions.  Once a Project Permit Compliance is utilized, the applicant
shall comply with the terms and conditions of the Project Permit Compliance that
affect the construction and/or operational phases of the project.  For purposes
of this subsection, utilization of a Project Permit Compliance shall mean that a
building permit has been issued and construction work has begun and been carried
on diligently.	(e)	(Deleted by Ord. No. 182,106, Eff. 5/20/12.)	(f)	Site Plan
Review Regulations.  Project review pursuant to the Site Plan Review
regulations in Section 16.05 shall not be required for projects in those
specific plan areas, as determined by the Director, where similar project site
planning regulations are established by the specific plan and significant
project environmental impacts, if any, are mitigated by the measures imposed in
the Project Permit Compliance.	(g)	Mini-Shopping Center and Commercial Corner
Development Regulations.  Project review pursuant to the Mini-Shopping Center
Commercial Corner Development regulations in Section 12.22A23 shall not be
required for projects in those specific plan areas, as determined by the
Director, where similar mini-shopping center or commercial corner development
regulations are established by the specific plan and significant project
environmental impacts, if any, are mitigated by the measures imposed in the
Project Permit Compliance.	5.	Failure to Act – Transfer of
Jurisdiction.	(a)	If the Director fails to act on an application within 75 days
from the date of filing a complete application, or within a mutually agreed upon
extension of time, the applicant may file a request for a transfer of
jurisdiction to the Area Planning Commission for decision.	(b)	When the Area
Planning Commission receives the applicant’s request for a transfer of
jurisdiction, the Director shall lose jurisdiction.  However, the Area Planning
Commission may remand the matter to the Director, who shall regain jurisdiction
for the time and purpose specified in the remand action.  In addition, upon
receipt of a written request by the applicant for withdrawal of the transfer of
jurisdiction prior to the matter being considered by the Area Planning
Commission, the matter shall be remanded to the Director.	(c)	If the matter is
not remanded, the Area Planning Commission shall consider the application
following the same procedures and subject to the same limitations as are
applicable to the Director, except that the Area Planning Commission shall act
within 45 days of the transfer of jurisdiction.  The Department of City
Planning shall make investigations and furnish any reports requested by the body
to which the matter has been transferred.	6.	Appeals.	(a)	Filing of an Appeal. 
An applicant or any other person aggrieved by the Director’s decision may
appeal the decision to the Area Planning Commission.  The appeal shall be filed
within 15 days of the date of mailing of the Director’s decision on forms
provided by the Department.  The appeal shall set forth specifically the points
at issue, the reasons for the appeal, and the basis upon which the appellant
claims there was an error or abuse of discretion by the Director.  Any appeal
not filed within the 15-day period shall not be considered by the Area Planning
Commission.  The filing of an appeal stays proceedings in the matter until the
Area Planning Commission has made a decision.  Once an appeal is filed, the
Director shall transmit the appeal and the file to the Area Planning Commission,
together with any reports responding to the allegations made in the
appeal.	(b)	Appellate Decision – Public Hearing and Notice.  Before acting on
any appeal, the Area Planning Commission shall set the matter for hearing, with
written notice of the hearing sent by First Class Mail at least 15 days prior to
the meeting date to:  the applicant; the owner(s) of the property involved;
owners of properties within 100 feet of the exterior boundaries of the property
involved; the Councilmember(s) having jurisdiction over the specific plan area
in which the property is located; the Department of Neighborhood Empowerment;
the chairperson of any design review or plan review board having jurisdiction
over the specific plan area in which the property is located; and interested
parties who have requested notice in writing.	(c)	Time for Appellate Decision. 
The Area Planning Commission shall act within 75 days after the expiration of
the appeal period or within any additional period mutually agreed upon by the
applicant and the Area Planning Commission.  The failure of the Area Planning
Commission to act within this time period shall be deemed a denial of the
appeal.	(d)	Appellate Decision.  The Area Planning Commission may reverse or
modify, in whole or in part, a decision of the Director.  The Area Planning
Commission shall make the same findings required to be made by the Director,
supported by facts in the record, and indicate why the Director erred in
determining a project’s compliance with the applicable regulations of the
specific plan.	(e)	Effective Date of Appellate Decision.  The appellate
decision of the Area Planning Commission shall be final and effective as
provided in Charter Section 245.	D.	Modification of a Project Permit Compliance
– Director of Planning With Appeals to the Area Planning Commission.  Once a
Project Permit Compliance becomes effective, any subsequent proposed
modification to the project shall require a review by the Director, who shall
grant approval of the modification if he or she finds the modification to be
substantially in conformance with the original Project Permit
Compliance.	1.	Modification Procedure.  To modify an approved project, an
applicant shall  file an application with the Department of City Planning
pursuant to the application procedure set forth in Paragraph (a) of Subdivision
2 of Subsection B.  The application shall include an illustrated description of
the proposed modification and a narrative justification.  Written proof of any
modification required by a public agency shall be submitted with the
application.	2.	Limitations.  Modification applications and approvals shall
only be valid for Project Permit Compliance decisions which have not expired. 
Unless the Director has granted an extension of time to utilize a Project Permit
Compliance pursuant to Paragraph (e) of Subdivision 4 of Subsection C of this
section, modifications shall not suspend or extend the authorization period of
the original Project Permit Compliance.	3.	Transfers of Jurisdiction –
Appeals.  The procedures for processing transfers of jurisdiction and appeals
of Director’s decisions on modifications shall be the same as those set forth
for Project Permit Compliance decisions in Subdivisions 5 and 6 of Subsection C
of this section.	E.	Project Permit Adjustments – Director of Planning With
Appeals to the Area Planning Commission.	1.	Director’s Authority.  The
Director shall have initial decision-making authority to grant a Project Permit
Adjustment for minor adjustments from certain specific plan regulations.  The
procedures for reviewing applications shall be in Subsection C in addition to
those set forth below.	(a)	In granting a Project Permit Adjustment, the Director
may impose project conditions as the Director deems necessary in order to
achieve substantial conformance with the specific plan regulations.	(b)	If an
application requests more than one Project Permit Adjustment, the Director may
determine and advise the applicant, prior to the application being deemed
complete, that the request be filed and processed as a specific plan exception
pursuant to Subsection F of this section.	2.	Project Permit Adjustments shall be
limited to:	(a)	Adjustments permitting project height to exceed the designated
height limitation on the property involved by less than ten percent;	(b)	When
the calculation of the maximum number of permitted multiple- family dwelling
units results in a fraction, the number of total dwelling units may be rounded
up to the next whole number, if the lot area remaining after calculating the
maximum number of permitted dwelling units is at least 90 percent of the lot
area required by the specific plan regulation to permit one additional dwelling
unit;	(c)	Adjustments permitting portions of buildings to extend into a required
yard, setback or other open space a distance of less than 20 percent of the
minimum width or depth of the required yard, setback or open
space;	(d)	Adjustments to minimum landscaped area requirements of less than 20
percent, or minor adjustments to required types of landscape
materials;	(e)	Adjustments to permitted signs that:	(1)	exceed the maximum sign
size (area) limitation by less than 20 percent;	(2)	exceed the limit on the
maximum number of signs by no more than 20 percent; or	(3)	exceed the maximum
sign height by no more than two feet;	(f)	Adjustments from the minimum or
maximum number of required parking spaces associated with a project of less than
ten percent; and	(g)	Minor adjustments from other specific plan development
regulations, which do not substantially alter the execution or intent of those
specific plan regulations to the proposed project, and which do not change the
permitted use, floor area, density or intensity, height or bulk, setbacks or
yards, lot coverage limitations, or parking standards regulated by the specific
plan.	3.	Findings.  The Director shall grant a Project Permit Adjustment upon a
written finding that the project satisfies each of the following requirements,
in addition to any other required specific plan findings that may pertain to the
Project Permit Compliance:	(a)	That there are special circumstances applicable
to the project or project site which make the strict application of the specific
plan regulation(s) impractical;	(b)	That in granting the Project Permit
Adjustment, the Director has imposed project requirements and/or decided that
the proposed project will substantially comply with all applicable specific plan
regulations;	(c)	That in granting the Project Permit Adjustment, the Director
has considered and found no detrimental effects of the adjustment on surrounding
properties and public rights-of-way; and	(d)	That the project incorporates
mitigation measures, monitoring of measures when necessary, or alternatives
identified in the environmental review which would mitigate the negative
environmental effects of the project, to the extent physically
feasible.	F.	Exceptions from Specific Plans – Area Planning Commission With
Appeals to the City Council.	1.	Authority of the Area Planning Commission.  The
Area Planning Commission shall have initial decision-making authority for
granting exceptions from specific plan regulations.  In accordance with
Subsection D of Section 12.24, the Area Planning Commission shall hold a hearing
at which evidence is taken.	(a)	In granting an exception from a specific plan,
the Area Planning Commission shall impose conditions to remedy any resulting
disparity of privilege and that are necessary to protect the public health,
safety, welfare and assure compliance with the objectives of the general plan
and the purpose and intent of the specific plan.  An exception from a specific
plan shall not be used to grant a special privilege, nor to grant relief from
self-imposed hardships.	(b)	If an application for an exception would potentially
impact a specific plan policy or a regulation affecting the entire specific plan
area or any of its subareas, the Director shall advise the applicant, prior to
the application being deemed complete, to request the City to initiate a
specific plan amendment pursuant to Subsection G in lieu of processing the
application for an exception.	(c)	Exception for Relief from a Specific Plan
Regulation and the Same Type of Regulation With the Same Standard in Chapter I
of this Code.  (Added by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  If a specific plan
contains a regulation that is the same type of regulation with the same standard
as one contained in an applicable provision of Chapter I of this Code, an
applicant seeking relief from those regulations need only apply for and receive
an exception to the specific plan.  In this situation, the specific plan
regulation is considered to supersede the Code provision and thus a variance is
not required.	(d)	Exception for Relief from Specific Plan Regulation and the
Same Type of Regulation With a Different Standard in Chapter I of this Code
Where Specific Plan Supersedes the Code.  (Added by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff.
10/10/00.)  If a specific plan contains a regulation that conflicts with the
same type of regulation but with a different standard contained in an applicable
provision of Chapter I of this Code and the specific plan supersedes the Code by
its terms, then an applicant seeking relief from that specific plan regulation
need only apply for and receive an exception to the specific plan.  In this
situation, a variance is not also required.	(e)	Exception for Relief from
Specific Plan Regulation and the Same Type of Regulation With a Different
Standard in Chapter I of this Code Where Specific Plan Does Not Supersede the
Code.  (Added by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  If a specific plan
contains a regulation that conflicts with the same type of regulation but with a
different standard contained in an applicable provision of Chapter I of this
Code and the specific plan does not supersede the Code by its terms, then an
applicant seeking relief from those regulations must apply for and receive both
an exception to the specific plan and a variance for relief from those Code
provisions.	(f)	Exception for Wireless Telecommunications Facilities. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of the first unnumbered paragraph of this
subdivision, the installation of wireless antennas and associated equipment
cabinets on the rooftops of buildings in the C and M Zones when established in
conformance with the standards contained in Section 12.21 A.21. do not need a
specific plan exception, except that rooftop antennas located within a scenic
parkway specific plan, scenic corridor specific plan, or a roadway designated as
a scenic highway within a specific plan area shall be subject to a specific plan
exception.  Any application involving the use, height, installation or
maintenance of wireless telecommunication facilities that do not comply with the
provisions of Section 12.21 A.21. and which are located within specific plan
areas shall be filed pursuant to Section 12.24 W.49. of this Code and considered
by the Zoning Administrator as the initial decision-maker, except that
applications located within a scenic parkway specific plan, scenic corridor
specific plan, or a roadway designated as a scenic highway within a specific
plan area shall be subject to a specific plan exception.  (Amended by Ord. No.
177,120, Eff. 12/26/05.)	(g)	Eldercare Facilities.  An applicant who files an
application involving Eldercare Facilities seeking relief from specific plan
regulations need not apply for a specific plan exception pursuant to Subsection
F. of this section but need only apply for and receive an approval pursuant to
Section 14.3.1 of this Code.  (Added by Ord. No. 178,063, Eff.
12/30/06.)	2.	Findings.  The Area Planning Commission may permit an exception
from a specific plan if it makes all the following findings:	(a)	That the strict
application of the regulations of the specific plan to the subject property
would result in practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships inconsistent
with the general purpose and intent of the specific plan;	(b)	That there are
exceptional circumstances or conditions applicable to the subject property
involved or to the intended use or development of the subject property that do
not apply generally to other property in the specific plan area;	(c)	That an
exception from the specific plan is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment
of a substantial property right or use generally possessed by other property
within the specific plan area in the same zone and vicinity but which, because
of special circumstances and practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships is
denied to the property in question;	(d)	That the granting of an exception will
not be detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to the property or
improvements adjacent to or in the vicinity of the subject property;
and	(e)	That the granting of an exception will be consistent with the
principles, intent and goals of the specific plan and any applicable element of
the general plan.	3.	Decision by Area Planning Commission.	(a)	The Area Planning
Commission shall render a decision on an application for an exception from a
specific plan within 75 days after filing unless the applicant and Area Planning
Commission consent in writing to a longer period.	(b)	Decisions by the Area
Planning Commission shall be supported by written findings of fact based on
evidence in the record.  Upon making a decision upon an application for an
exception from a specific plan, the Area Planning Commission shall place a copy
of its written findings, where required, and decision on file in the City
Planning Department and provide a copy to:  the Department of Building and
Safety; the Councilmember(s) having jurisdiction over the specific plan area in
which the property is located; and the Department of Transportation, where
appropriate.  Copies of the decision shall also be provided by First Class Mail
to: the applicant; the Department of Neighborhood Empowerment; the chairperson
of any design review or plan review board having jurisdiction over the specific
plan area in which the property is located; and interested parties who have
filed written requests with the City Planning Department.	4.	Effective Date of
Decision.  The Area Planning Commission’s decision shall become final after
an elapsed period of 15 calendar days from the date of mailing of the written
decision, unless an appeal is filed on the decision within that period pursuant
to this subsection.	5.	(Deleted by Ord. No. 182,106, Eff. 5/20/12.)	6.	Failure
to Act – Transfer of Jurisdiction from the Area Planning Commission.  If the
Area Planning Commission fails to act on an application for an exception from a
specific plan within the time limit specified in this subsection, the applicant
may file a request for a transfer of jurisdiction to the City Council for a
decision upon the original application, in which case, the Area Planning
Commission shall lose jurisdiction.  A request for transfer of jurisdiction may
be filed in any public office of the Department of City Planning.	The Council
may approve the application subject to making the findings contained in
Subdivision 2. of this subsection, and may impose upon the approval conditions
it deems necessary in accordance with those findings.  The action of the
Council shall be adopted by a majority vote of the whole Council within 45 days
of the date the City Clerk receives the request for the transfer.	7.	Appeal of
Area Planning Commission Decision.  An applicant or any other person aggrieved
by a decision of the Area Planning Commission may appeal the decision to the
City Council.  The appeal shall be filed within 15 days of the date of mailing
of the decision on forms provided by the Planning Department.  The appeal shall
set forth specifically the points at issue, the reasons for the appeal, and the
basis upon which the appellant claims there was an error or abuse of discretion
by the Area Planning Commission.  Any appeal not filed within the 15-day period
shall not be considered by the City Council.  The filing of an appeal stays
proceedings in the matter until the City Council has made a decision.  Once an
appeal is filed, the Area Planning Commission shall transmit the appeal and the
file to the City Council, together with any report responding to the allegations
made in the appeal.	The Council may reverse or modify, in whole or in part, any
decision of the Area Planning Commission only by a two-thirds vote of the whole
Council.  The decision must contain a finding of fact showing why the proposed
exception to a specific plan complies or fails to comply with the requirements
of this section.  Any vote of the Council in which less than two-thirds of the
whole Council vote to reverse or modify the decision of the Area Planning
Commission shall be deemed to be an action denying the appeal.  The failure of
the Council to vote upon an appeal within 90 days after the expiration of the
appeal period, or within any additional period agreed upon by the applicant and
the Council, shall also be deemed a denial of the appeal.	8.	Hearing by
Council.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,992, Eff. 7/6/01.)  Before acting on any
appeal, or on any matter transferred to it because of a failure to act, the City
Council or its Committee shall set the matter for hearing, giving the same
notice as provided in Subdivision 1. of this subsection.	G.	Amendments to
Specific Plans – City Planning Commission Recommendation With City Council
Decision.  The City Planning Commission shall have the authority for making
recommendations for amendments to specific plans.  The procedures for amending
specific plans are set forth in Subsections A., C. and E. of Section 12.32,
except that the publication and mailing of the hearing notice indicating the
time, place and purpose of the City Planning Commission hearing shall be given
at least 24 days prior to the date of the hearing.  An amendment to a specific
plan shall be required for any of the following proposals:	1.	To permit
establishment of a new principal use or a change of use that the specific plan
specifically identifies as a prohibited use (Note: a specific plan exception
shall be required for alteration or enlargement of an existing legal
nonconforming use.);	2.	To permit a use which exceeds the maximum number of
permitted establishments or the maximum permitted occupant load for that use
within the specific plan area or any of its subareas;	3.	To permit a sign which
the specific plan specifically identifies as a prohibited sign;	4.	To deviate
from the requirements of a plan map footnote;	5.	To make significant changes to
environmental mitigation measures which were adopted as part of the
environmental clearance for the specific plan;	6.	To make changes to impact fees
which affect implementation of the specific plan or planned improvements;	7.	To
make boundary changes to the specific plan area or its subareas;	8.	To change
highway/street designations;	9.	Any request which causes an inconsistency with
the applicable community plan(s) and necessitates a community plan amendment;
or	10.	Other significant policy changes or modifications to specific plan
regulations which affect the entire specific plan area or any of its subareas,
as determined by the Director.	H.	Interpretations of Specific Plans.  The
Director shall have authority to interpret specific plans when there is a lack
of clarity in the meaning of their regulations.	1.	Application Procedure.  To
request a specific plan interpretation, an applicant shall file an application
with the Department of City Planning pursuant to the application procedure set
forth in Paragraph (a) of Subdivision 2 of Subsection B of this section.  The
application shall include a reference to the specific plan regulation(s) for
which clarification is requested and a narrative description of why a
clarification is necessary for the project or subject property
involved.	2.	Director’s Decision.  Upon receipt of a deemed complete
application, the Director’s written interpretation shall be subject to the
same time limit to act, transmittal requirement and effective date of decision
as set forth in Paragraphs (a) through (c) of Subdivision 4 of Subsection
C.	3.	Appeals.  The City Planning Commission shall hear appeals on Director
interpretations which affect an entire specific plan area or any of its
subareas, and the Area Planning Commission shall hear appeals on Director
interpretations which are applicable only on a site specific basis.  The
procedures for filing and processing appeals of Director interpretations shall
otherwise be the same as those set forth in Subdivision 6 of Subsection C of
this section.	I.	Optional Public Informational Meeting.  When provided for in
individual specific plans, the Director may hold a public informational meeting
in connection with the Planning Department’s review of a proposed project
pursuant to the specific plan procedures set forth in Subsections C, D or E of
this section, if the Director decides that the proposed project may have a
potentially significant effect on adjoining properties or on the immediate
neighborhood, or that it is likely to evoke public controversy, or that it would
be in the public interest to conduct the meeting.  In those cases, written
notice of the meeting shall be sent by First Class Mail at least 15 days prior
to the meeting date to:  the applicant; the owner(s) of the property involved;
owners of properties within 100 feet of the exterior boundaries of the property
involved; the Councilmember(s) having jurisdiction over the specific plan area
in which the property is located; to the Department of Neighborhood Empowerment;
the chair of any design review or plan review board having jurisdiction over the
specific plan area in which the property is located; and interested parties who
have requested notice in writing.	J.	Decision-Makers and Appellate Bodies for
Other Specific Plan Provisions.  For those specific plan provisions which are
not addressed elsewhere in this section, the initial decision-maker and
appellate bodies responsible for implementing those provisions shall be the Area
Planning Commission and Council, respectively, unless otherwise identified in
the following table.  Notwithstanding the provisions of any specific plan to
the contrary, there shall be only one level of appeal from any initial
decision.DECISION / APPELLATE BODIES FOR OTHER SPECIFIC PLAN PROVISIONS
  
    
      
        
      
      
        SPECIFIC PLAN PROVISION
      
      
        Location
      
      
        Decision Body
      
      
        Decision or Appeal Body
      
    
    
      
        1
      
      
        ALAMEDA DISTRICT Project Plan Compliance – Phase II
      
      
        Ord. No. 171,139
        Sec 5A3
      
      
        CPC
      
      
        CCL
      
    
    
      
        2
      
      
        CENTRAL CITY WEST
        TFAR/Resid. Density
      
      
        Ord. No. 167,944
        Sec 7
      
      
        APC
      
      
        CCL
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        CENTRAL CITY WEST
        Phasing-Annual Report
      
      
        Ord. No. 167,944
        Sec 16C
      
      
        CPC
      
      
        CCL
      
    
    
      
        3
      
      
        CENTURY CITY NORTH
        Project Permit (Second Phase)
      
      
        Ord. No. 156,122
        Sec 3C
      
      
        CPC
      
      
        CCL
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        CENTURY CITY NORTH
        Alternate Trip Generation Calcs
      
      
        Ord. No. 156,122
        Sec 6
      
      
        APC
      
      
        CCL
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        CENTURY CITY NORTH
        Public Uses
      
      
        Ord. No. 156,122
        Sec 7E
      
      
        APC
      
      
        CCL
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        CENTURY CITY NORTH
        Changes to Pedestrian Corridor
      
      
        Ord. No. 156,122
        Sec 10B9
      
      
        APC
      
      
        CCL
      
    
    
      
        4
      
      
        COASTAL TRANSPORTATION CORRIDOR
        Trip Generation Calcs
      
      
        Ord. No. 168,999
        Sec 5C1
      
      
        APC
      
      
        CCL
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        COASTAL TRANSPORTATION CORRIDOR
        Transportation Provisions
      
      
        Ord. No. 168,999
      
      
        DOT
      
      
        APC
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        COASTAL TRANSPORTATION CORRIDOR
        Project Phasing Program
      
      
        Ord. No. 168,999
        Sec 8A
      
      
        Director/DOT
      
      
        APC
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        COASTAL TRANSPORTATION CORRIDOR
        Public Pedestrian Facilities
      
      
        Ord. No. 168,999
        Sec 8B
      
      
        Director/
        DOT/ City Engineer
      
      
        APC
      
    
    
      
        5
      
      
        HOLLYWOODLAND
        Project Design Approval
      
      
        Ord. No. 168,121
        Sec 9F
      
      
        Director
      
      
        APC
      
    
    
      
        6
      
      
        LAX/ EL SEGUNDO DUNES
      
      
        Ord. No. 167,904
        Sec 4
      
      
        Director
      
      
        APC
      
    
    
      
        7
      
      
        OXFORD TRIANGLE
        Density Allowance
      
      
        Ord. No. 170,155
        Sec 6, 7
      
      
        APC
      
      
        CCL
      
    
    
      
        8
      
      
        PLAYA VISTA AREA B
        Time Limits
      
      
        Ord. No. 160,521
        165, 638
        Sec 12
      
      
        Director
      
      
        APC
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        PLAYA VISTA AREA B
        Plot Plan Review
      
      
        Ord. No. 160,521
        165, 638
        Sec 7, 13
      
      
        Director
      
      
        APC
      
    
    
      
        9
      
      
        PLAYA VISTA AREA C
        Time Limits
      
      
        Ord. No. 165,639
        Sec 12
      
      
        Director
      
      
        APC
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        PLAYA VISTA AREA C
        Plot Plan Review
      
      
        Ord. No. 165,639
        Sec 7, 13
      
      
        Director
      
      
        APC
      
    
    
      
        10
      
      
        PLAYA VISTA AREA D
        Time Limits
      
      
        Ord. No. 160,523
        170,785
        Sec 10
      
      
        Director
      
      
        APC
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        PLAYA VISTA AREA D
        Plot Plan Review
      
      
        Ord. No. 160,523
        170,785
        Sec 7, 11
      
      
        Director
      
      
        APC
      
    
    
      
        11
      
      
        PORTER RANCH
        Landscape Plans, Uses, Height
      
      
        Ord. No. 166,068
        Sec 13
      
      
        Director
      
      
        APC
      
    
    
      
        12
      
      
        VENTURA/CAHUENGA BLVD
        Phasing-Certification of Compliance
      
      
        Ord. No. 171,240
        Sec 6J
      
      
        CPC
      
      
        CCL
      
    
    
      
        13
      
      
        WARNER CENTER
        Transportation Requirements
      
      
        Ord. No. 168,873
        168,984, 171,529
        Sec 11
      
      
        DOT/ Director
        B&#038;S
      
      
        APC
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        WARNER CENTER
        Phasing Program
      
      
        Ord. No. 168,873
        168,984, 171,529
        Sec 16
      
      
        CPC
      
      
        CCL
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        WARNER CENTER
        Traffic Mitigation Plan
      
      
        Ord. No. 168,873
        168,984, 171,529
        Sec 11F
      
      
        DOT, Director
      
      
        APC
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        WARNER CENTER
        Residential Neighborhood
        Protection Program
      
      
        Ord. No. 168,873
        168,984, 171,529
        Sec 11K
      
      
        APC
      
      
        CCL
      
    
    
      
        14
      
      
        WEST LA TIMP
        Phasing Program
      
      
        Ord. No. 171,492
        Sec 7
      
      
        CPC
      
      
        CCL
      
    
  
	Legend:
	APC – Area Planning Commission
	CCL – City Council
	CPC – City Planning Commission
	Director – Director of Planning
	DOT – Department of Transportation
