                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

MAXIMUM NOISE LEVEL OF POWERED EQUIPMENT OR POWERED HAND TOOLS. (§ 112.05)

  MAXIMUM NOISE LEVEL OF POWERED EQUIPMENT OR POWERED HAND TOOLS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 161,574, Eff. 9/8/86.)	Between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and
10:00 p.m., in any residential zone of the City or within 500 feet thereof, no
person shall operate or cause to be operated any powered equipment or powered
hand tool that produces a maximum noise level exceeding the following noise
limits at a distance of 50 feet therefrom:	(a)	75dB(A) for construction,
industrial, and agricultural machinery including crawler-tractors, dozers,
rotary drills and augers, loaders, power shovels, cranes, derricks, motor
graders, paving machines, off-highway trucks, ditchers, trenchers, compactors,
scrapers, wagons, pavement breakers, compressors and pneumatic or other powered
equipment;	(b)	75dB(A) for powered equipment of 20 HP or less intended for
infrequent use in residential areas, including chain saws, log chippers and
powered hand tools;	(c)	65dB(A) for powered equipment intended for repetitive
use in residential areas, including lawn mowers, backpack blowers, small lawn
and garden tools and riding tractors;	The noise limits for particular equipment
listed above in (a), (b) and (c) shall be deemed to be superseded and replaced
by noise limits for such equipment from and after their establishment by final
regulations adopted by the Federal Environmental Protection Agency and published
in the Federal Register.	Said noise limitations shall not apply where compliance
therewith is technically infeasible  The burden of proving that compliance is
technically infeasible shall be upon the person or persons charged with a
violation of this section. Technical infeasibility shall mean that said noise
limitations cannot be complied with despite the use of mufflers, shields, sound
barriers and/or other noise reduction device or techniques during the operation
of the equipment.
