                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

POWERED EQUIPMENT INTENDED FOR REPETITIVE USE IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS AND OTHER
MACHINERY, EQUIPMENT, AND DEVICES. (§ 112.04)

  POWERED EQUIPMENT INTENDED FOR REPETITIVE USE IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS AND OTHER
MACHINERY, EQUIPMENT, AND DEVICES.
	(Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 161,574, Eff 9/8/86.)	(a)	Between the
hours of 10:00 p.m and. 7:00 a.m. of the following day, no person shall operate
any lawn mower, backpack blower, lawn edger, riding tractor, or any other
machinery, equipment, or other mechanical or electrical device, or any hand tool
which creates a loud, raucous or impulsive sound, within any residential zone or
within 500 feet of a residence.	(b)	Except as to the equipment and operations
specifically mentioned and related elsewhere in this Chapter or for emergency
work as that term is defined in Section 111.01(d), and except as to aircraft,
tow tractors, aircraft auxiliary power units, trains and motor vehicles in their
respective operations governed by State or federal regulations, no person shall
operate or cause to be operated any machinery, equipment, tools, or other
mechanical or electrical device, or engage in any other activity in such manner
as to create any noise which would cause the noise level on the premises of any
other occupied property, or, if a condominium, apartment house, duplex, or
attached business, within any adjoining unit, to exceed the ambient noise level
by more than five (5) decibels.	(c)	Notwithstanding the provisions of Subsection
(a) above, no gas powered blower shall be used within 500 feet of a residence at
anytime.  Both the user of such a blower as well as the individual who
contracted for the services of the user, if any, shall be subject to the
requirements of and penalty provisions for this ordinance.  Violation of the
provisions of this subsection shall be punishable as an infraction in an amount
not to exceed One Hundred Dollars ($100.00), notwithstanding the graduated fines
set forth in L.A.M.C. § 11.00(m).  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,890, Eff.
2/13/98.)
