                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

“RW2” RESIDENTIAL WATERWAYS ZONE. (§ 12.09.5)

  “RW2” RESIDENTIAL WATERWAYS ZONE.
	(Added by Ord. No. 138,095, Eff. 4/19/69.)	The following regulations shall
apply in the “RW2” Residential Water ways Zone:	A.	Purpose. The regulations
set forth in this section are to make possible the utilization of certain lots
fronting on navigable public canals or waterways, or separated therefrom only by
a public street, which make up, or are a portion of, a sizable system of
recreational waterways when such lots are predominantly those which were
recorded prior to June 1, 1946.	Because of exceptional past history, present
conditions, the proximity of such lots to recreational water areas, and their
usual location in areas which enjoy optimum climatic conditions, the best
development of the property may require variation from some of the standard
housing requirements necessary or desirable to the rest of the City.	B.	Use. No
building, structure or land shall be used and no building or structure shall be
erected, structurally altered, enlarged, or maintained, except for the following
uses, and when a “Supplemental Use District” is created by the provisions of
Article 3 of this chapter, for such uses as may be permitted
therein:	1.	One-family dwellings.	2.	Two-family dwellings.	3.	Accessory
buildings, including private garages, accessory living quarters, servants
quarters, or recreational rooms, provided that:	(a)	Every accessory building
containing accessory living quarters or servants quarters shall constitute a
dwelling for the purposes of computing the applicable lot area requirements of
this zone.	(b)	An accessory living quarters, servants quarters, recreation room
or private garage, or any combination of said uses, may be included in one
building not exceeding two stories in height. For location of accessory
buildings, refer to Section 12.21C and 12.22C.	4.	Conditional uses enumerated in
Section 12.24 when the location is approved pursuant to the provisions of said
section.	5.	Accessory uses and home occupations, subject to the conditions
specified in Section 12.05 A 16 of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,427,
Eff. 1/4/97, Oper. 3/5/97.)	6.	Name plates and signs, and required automobile
parking spaces as provided for in Section 12.21 A of this Code.  (Added by Ord.
No. 171,427, Eff. 1/4/97, Oper. 3/5/97.)	C.	Area – No building or structure
shall be erected or maintained nor shall any building or structure be enlarged
unless the following yards and lot areas are provided and maintained in
connection with such building, structure or enlargement:	1.	Front Yard – Same
as required in “RW1” Zones—Section 12.08.5-C.,1	2.	Side Yards – 
(Amended by Ord. No. 150,336, Eff. 12/31/77. )  – Side yards shall be
required in accordance with the provisions of either paragraphs (a), (b) or (c)
below and the limitations hereafter specified:	(a)	For a main building of not
more than two stories in height there shall be a side yard on each side of said
building of not less than ten percent of the width of the lot, but in no event
of less than three feet in width. For a building more than two stories in
height, one foot shall be added to the width of such side yard for each
additional story above the second story.	(b)	There may be a side yard on only
one side of a main building, provided that:	(1)	For a main building of not more
than two stories in height, said required side yard shall be at least four feet
in width. For a building more than two stories in height, one foot shall be
added to the width of such side yard for each additional story above the second
story.	(2)	The main building is structurally independent with an unpierced wall
from the ground to the weatherproofing material of the roof covering between
said main building and any adjacent main building.	(3)	An adjoining lot is
developed in a similar manner so that the two main buildings will be adjacent to
each other with no side yard between.	(c)	No side yards shall be required for a
main building on the interior lot or lots of groups of adjacent lots
when:	(1)	The group of adjacent lots includes at least three, but not more than
five, lots.	(2)	For a main building constructed on an end lot of such a group of
lots, a side yard as required in paragraph (b) (1) of this subdivision is
provided and maintained abutting the outermost lot line.	(3)	The main building
on each lot of such group of lots is structurally independent with an unpierced
wall from the ground to the weatherproofing material of the roof covering
between it and any adjacent main building.	3.	Rear Yard – There shall be a
rear yard of not less than 15 feet in depth. Notwithstanding any provisions of
this article to the contrary, the rear lot line is that line opposite and most
distant from the lot line separating the narrowest canal frontage of the lot
from the navigable public canal or waterway. (Amended by Ord. No. 150,336, Eff.
12/31/77.)	4.	Lot Area – Every lot shall have a minimum width of 28 feet and a
minimum area of 2,300 square feet. The minimum lot area per dwelling unit shall
be 1,150 square feet.	5.	Open Space – Same as required in “RW1” Zone –
Section 12.08.5 C.5.	6.	Limitations – (Amended by Ord. No. 150,336, Eff.
12/31/77.) – No person shall be issued a building permit for any lot being
developed without a side yard on each side of the main building until:	(a)	A
site plan has been first filed with and approved by the City Planning
Commission. Buildings constructed upon said lot must conform to the approved
site plan. Every person applying for a building permit for such a lot shall file
with the City Planning Commission a site plan which will show the location of
the proposed building or buildings and the location of any existing buildings on
adjacent lots. Said site plan shall be accompanied by such other plans or data
as may be required by the Commission.	The City Planning Commission shall
approve, conditionally approve or disapprove the site plan within 50 days, and
may disapprove or require the revision of said site plan when it is determined
that the proposal as submitted would not adequately maintain side yards between
adjoining ownerships when they are deemed necessary to provide adequate access,
light and air. In the event the Commission disapproves said site plan, the
applicant may appeal the matter to the City Council. The appeal shall set forth
specifically wherein the appellant believes the Commission’s findings and
decision to be in error. Such appeal shall be filed in duplicate in the public
office of the Department of City Planning within 20 days from the date of
mailing the notification of disapproval to the applicant. Thereupon, the appeal,
the Commission file and a report including reasons for disapproval and answering
the allegations in the appeal shall be transmitted to the City Council;
and	(b)	The owner, or owners, of the adjacent lot, or lots, which are a portion
of a side–by–side development, as specified in Section 12.09.5 C.2.(b), or
which are a portion of a group development as specified in Section 12.09.5
C.2.(c), records an agreement in the Office of the County Recorder whereby he,
or they, agree to develop said property with a main building in the manner
indicated on the site plan approved by the City Planning
Commission.	D.	Restriction.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  For any lot designated as Public, Quasi-Public, Public/Quasi-Public
Use, Other Public, or Open Space on the land use map of the applicable community
or district plan; any lot shown on the map as having existing lakes, waterways,
reservoirs, debris basins, or similar facilities; any lot shown on the map as
the location of a freeway right-of-way; and any property annexed to the City of
Los Angeles where a plan amendment was not adopted as part of the annexation
proceedings:	Any of the uses permitted by Subsection B. of this section shall
require prior approval in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.24.1 of
this Code.
