                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PURPOSE. (§ 12.02)

  PURPOSE.	The purpose of this article is to consolidate and coordinate all
existing zoning regulations and provisions into one comprehensive zoning plan in
order to designate, regulate and restrict the location and use of buildings,
structures and land, for agriculture, residence, commerce, trade, industry or
other purposes; to regulate and limit the height, number of stories, and size of
buildings and other structures hereafter erected or altered to regulate and
determine the size of yards and other open spaces and to regulate and limit the
density of population; and for said purposes to divide the City into zones of
such number, shape and area as may be deemed best suited to carry out these
regulations and provide for their enforcement. Further, such regulations are
deemed necessary in order to encourage the most appropriate use of land; to
conserve and stabilize the value of property; to provide adequate open spaces
for light and air, and to prevent and fight fires; to prevent undue
concentration of population; to lessen congestion on streets; to facilitate
adequate provisions for community utilities and facilities such as
transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks and other public requirements;
and to promote health, safety, and the general welfare all in accordance with
the comprehensive plan.	The zoning regulations are not contracts by the City and
may therefore be modified by the latter. Property is always held subject to the
valid exercise of the police power. The theory of vested rights relates only to
such rights as an owner of property may possess not to have his property rezoned
after he has started construction thereon or was making a use thereof permitted
by law, when such obstruction or use does not constitute a nuisance and the
adoption of the zoning ordinance does not give a property owner any vested
rights.
	Wheeler v. Gregg, 90 Cal. App. 2d 348 at 365.	No person has a vested right in
the exercise of the police power. An exercise of the same may not be limited by
a prior contract or restricted covenants.
	Wheeler v. Gregg, 90 Ca. App. 2d 348, 367.
	Acker  v. Baldwin, 18 Cal. 2d 341.	When a building is partly in one zone and
partly in another, a person who conducts a prohibited business in the portion of
such building where such business is prohibited, held, guilty of violation of
the zoning ordinance, even though conduct of such business in other part of
building would have been lawful.
	People v. Nixon CR A 2201.	The use of a lot restricted to non-business uses as
place where automobiles stood on concrete slab while being serviced from pump
located on lot zoned for business, held to be a use of restricted lot for
business purposes in violation of zoning ordinance.
	People v. Myers, CR A550.	An ordinance which forbids the erection and
maintenance of a dwelling house except where such dwelling has adequate and
permanent access to a permanent or public street is valid.
	Mitchell v. Morris, 94 Cal. App. 2d 446.	It is not an unlawful exercise of
police power to amend a zoning ordinance and extend the limits of an area in
which conduct of a certain business is prohibited when no construction or
building has been started.
	Dobbins v. City of Los Angeles. 139 Cal. 179.
	Marblehead Land Co. v. City of Los Angeles, 47 F.2d 528.	A zoning ordinance is
not void or discriminatory because there is a territory outside the district in
which a business subject to the police power is permitted, exactly similar to
that inside the district where it is prohibited.
	Brown v. City of Los Angeles, 183 Cal. 783.	Where three separately numbered
lots are enclosed with a fence and occupied and used as a single parcel, house
being on one lot and horses were kept on other lot, held, the entire premises
were used for a single family residence with customary outbuildings within
meaning of county ordinance.
	People v. Smith, CK A 1696.	Where zone boundary line runs through a building,
held, fact that defendant was uncertain as to where such line ran is not a
defense to charge of conducting business in a forbidden zone.
	People v. Nixon, CR A 2201.	Zoning ordinances, when reasonable in object and
not arbitrary in operation, constitute a justifiable exercise of the police
power, and such power extends to the regulation of uses of property which do not
actually amount to nuisances.
	Jones v. City Of Los Angeles, 211 Cal. 304	Where a vendor of property conceals
the fact that a violation of zoning regulations exists thereon, the purchaser is
not bound by constructive notice of the applicable zoning ordinance, and said
vendor’s failure to disclose such violation constitutes actual fraud.
	Barder v. McClung, 93 Cal. App. 2d 692.	Zoning Ordinances which have been held
invalid fall roughly into four categories: 1. Where the zoning ordinance
attempts to exclude and prohibit existing and established uses or businesses
that are not nuisances. 2. Where restrictions create a monopoly. 3. Where the
use of adjacent property renders the land entirely unsuited to or unusable for
the only purpose permitted by the ordinance. 4. Where a small parcel is
restricted and given less rights than surrounding property, as where a lot in
the center of a business district is limited to use for residential purposes,
thereby creating an “island” in the middle of a larger area devoted to other
uses.
	Wilkins v. City of San Bernardino, 29 Cal. 2d 332,340.	The terms “buildable
area” and “building site”, Article 1, Section 3(11) of the City Charter of
Los Angeles are defined to include a “Designated Building Site” as that term
is defined in and provided for by Section 2 of uncodified Ordinance 159,802,
Eff. 6/9/85. SEC.
