                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

“RW1” RESIDENTIAL WATERWAYS ZONE. (§ 12.08.5)

  “RW1” RESIDENTIAL WATERWAYS ZONE.
	(Added by Ord. No. 138,095, Eff. 4/19/69.)	The following regulations shall
apply in the “RW1” Residential Waterways Zone:	A.	Purpose.  The regulations
set forth in this section are to make possible the utilization of certain lots
fronting on navigable public canals or waterways, or separated therefrom only by
a public street, which make up, or are a portion of, a sizeable system of
recreational waterways when such lots are predominantly those which were
recorded prior to June 1, 1946.	Because of exceptional past history, present
conditions, the proximity of such lots to recreational water areas, and their
usual location in areas which enjoy optimum climatic conditions, the best
development of the property may require variation from some of the standard
housing requirements necessary or desirable in the rest of the City.	B.	Use. 
No building, structure or land shall be used and no building or structure shall
be erected, structurally altered, enlarged, or maintained, except for the
following uses, and when a “Supplemental Use District” is created by the
provisions of Article 3 of this chapter, for such uses as may be permitted
therein:	1.	One-family dwelling.	2.	Accessory buildings, including private
garages, accessory living quarters, servants quarters, or recreation rooms,
provided that:	(a)	No accessory living quarters nor servants quarters are
located or maintained on a lot having an area of less than 4,600 square
feet.	(b)	An accessory living quarters, servants quarters, recreation room or
private garage or any combination of said uses may be included in one building
not exceeding two stories in height. For location of accessory buildings, refer
to Sections 12.21C and 12.22C.	3.	Conditional uses enumerated in Section 12.24
when the location is approved pursuant to the provisions of said
section.	4.	Accessory uses and home occupations, subject to the conditions
specified in Section 12.05 A 16 of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,427,
Eff. 1/4/97, Oper. 3/5/97.)	5.	Name plates and signs, and required automobile
parking spaces as provided for in Section 12.21 A of this Code.  (Added by Ord.
No. 171,427, Eff. 1/4/97, Oper. 3/5/97.)	C.	Area.  No building or structure
shall be erected or maintained nor shall any building or structure be enlarged
unless the following yards and lot areas are provided and maintained in
connection with such building, structure or enlargement:	1.	Front Yard – There
shall be a front yard of not less than ten feet in depth. Notwithstanding any
provisions of this article to the contrary;	(a)	The front yard shall be measured
from the lot line nearest to, or separating the lot from, the navigable public
canal or waterway, and in the case of a corner lot, from the line separating the
narrowest canal frontage of the lot from the navigable public canal or waterway,
or from the public street lying between the lot and the navigable public canal
or waterway, except in those cases where the latest tract deed restrictions
specify another line as the front lot line.	(b)	No stairway, platform, landing,
or porch shall extend or project into said required front yard space more than
48 inches, and in no case shall any such stairway, platform, landing, or porch
exceed a height of 30 inches above the finished ground level adjacent thereto in
said front yard space.	(c)	No cornice, belt course, still or other similar
architectural projection, but not including eaves, shall project into said
required front yard space more than 12 inches.	2.	Side Yard  – There shall be
a side yard on each side of a building of not less than 10 percent of the width
of the lot, but in no event less than three feet in width.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 151,601, Eff. 11/25/78.)	3.	Rear Yard – There shall be a rear yard of not
less than 15 feet in depth. In no event shall any exterior wall of the first
story of the main building be located closer than nine feet from the rear lot
line. In the event three or more automobile parking spaces are provided in an
attached garage or carport on the same lot for each dwelling unit, no exterior
wall of the main building shall be located closer than five feet from the rear
lot line. Notwithstanding any provisions of this article to the contrary, the
rear lot line is that line opposite and most distant from the lot line
separating the narrowest canal frontage of the lot from the navigable public
canal or waterway.  (Amended by Ord. No. 150,336, Eff. 12/31/77.)	4.	Lot Area
– Every lot shall have a minimum width of 28 feet and a minimum area of 2,300
square feet.  (Amended by Ord. No. 150,336, Eff. 12/31/77.)	5.	Open Space –
There shall be usable open space, such as patio, garden, deck or recreational
area, in the amount of ten percent of the lot area for each story of a main
building on the lot. Such open space shall be in addition to the areas which are
included in required yards and may be not less than 100 square feet in size. For
multi-storied buildings, such open space need not be evenly distributed between
all floors of the main building, but in no event may more than two–thirds of
the total usable open space required be located above the first story of the
main building. (Amended by Ord. No. 150,336, Eff. 12/31/77.)	D.	Restriction. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  For any lot
designated as Public, Quasi-Public, Public/Quasi-Public Use, Other Public, or
Open Space on the land use map of the applicable community or district plan; any
lot shown on the map as having existing lakes, waterways, reservoirs, debris
basins, or similar facilities; any lot shown on the map as the location of a
freeway right-of-way; and any property annexed to the City of Los Angeles where
a plan amendment was not adopted as part of the annexation proceedings:	Any of
the uses permitted by Subsection B of this section shall require prior approval
in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.24.1 of this Code.
