                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

“A1” AGRICULTURE ZONE. (§ 12.05)

  “A1” AGRICULTURE ZONE.	The following regulations shall apply in the
	A.	Use.  No building, structure or land shall be used and no building or
structure shall be erected, structurally altered, enlarged or maintained, except
for the following uses, and when a “Supplemental Use District” is created by
the provisions of Article 3 of this chapter, for such uses as may be permitted
thereon.	1.	One–Family dwellings.	2.	(None).	3.	(None).	4.	Parks, playgrounds
or community centers, owned and operated by the government agency.	5.	Golf
courses, except driving tees or ranges, miniature and pitch and putt courses
having an average fairway length per hole of less than 125 yards, courses
illuminated for nighttime play and similar uses operated for commercial
purposes.  (Amended by Ord. No. 123,664, Eff. 3/10/63.)	6.	Farming, nurseries,
aviaries, and apiaries.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,188, Eff.
7/18/10.)	7.	(Amended by Ord. No. 158,126, Eff. 8/22/83.)  The keeping of
equines, bovines, goats or other domestic livestock, and not to exceed five
swine, and the keeping of poultry, fowl, rabbits, fish or frogs, chinchillas and
other small animals in conjunction with the residential use of the lot,
provided:	(a)	That these activities are not for commercial purposes, except that
a maximum of two currently licensed equines not owned by the resident of the
involved property may be boarded (for which monetary compensation may be paid)
or kept on that property as an accessory use, and except that chickens, rabbits
or chinchillas may be kept for commercial purposes on lots of five acres or
more.  (Amended by Ord. No. 161,352, Eff. 7/20/86.)	(b)	The keeping of equines,
bovines, goats or other domestic livestock shall be permitted only on lots
having an area of 17,500 square feet or more. Where equines and/or bovines are
being kept, the number kept shall not exceed one equine or bovine for each 4,000
square feet of lot area.  (Amended by Ord. No. 159,341, Eff.
10/11/84.)	8.	(None).	9.	Any other similar uses or enterprises customarily
carried on in the field of general agriculture and not obnoxious or detrimental
to the public welfare.	10.	Conditional uses enumerated in Sec. 12.24 when the
location is approved pursuant to the provisions of said section.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 117,450, Eff. 12/18/60.)	11.	Accessory buildings including a private
garage, accessory living quarters, servant’s quarters, recreation room,
greenhouse, lathhouse, stable, barn, corral, pen, coop, building or room for
packing products raised on the premises or other similar structure. Accessory
living quarters, servant’s quarters, recreation room and a private garage, or
any combination of such uses may be included in one building not exceeding two
stories in height.  (Amended by Ord. No. 122,543, Eff. 9/2/62.)	For location of
accessory buildings, refer to Sec. 12.21C and Sec. 12.22C.	12.	Accessory uses. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 171,427, Eff. 1/4/97, Oper. 3/5/97.)	13.	One stand for the
display and sale of only those products produced upon the same premises,
provided that the plan for the construction of such stand is approved by the
Department of Building and Safety; that it does not exceed an area of two
hundred (200) square feet; and that it is located not nearer than ten (10) feet
to any street or highway.	14.	Name plates and signs as provided for in Sec.
12.21A7.	15.	(Deleted by Ord. No. 171,687, Eff. 8/19/97.)	16.	Home Occupations,
subject to all of the following conditions and standards:  (Added by Ord. No.
171,427, Eff. 1/4/97, Oper. 3/5/97.)	(a)	Conditions and Standards.	(1)	No
changes are made which alter the residential character or appearance of the
dwelling unit or property in any manner which precludes its residential use. 
Activities associated with the home occupation may not be visible from the
outside of the dwelling unit, except for truck gardening.  (Amended by Ord. No.
181,188, Eff. 7/18/10.)	(2)	Notwithstanding Section 12.21 A 7 of this Code,
signs and window or outside displays in connection with the home occupation are
prohibited.	(3)	The use shall be conducted within the main dwelling unit, except
for truck gardening, and only by persons residing within the dwelling unit. 
However, no more than one person not residing on the premises may be employed to
work on the premises as part of all of the home occupations.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 181,188, Eff. 7/18/10.)	(4)	Parking provided for the building must continue
to be maintained pursuant to Section 12.21A4(m) of this Code.	(5)	Visitors’
parked cars shall not displace or impede the use of required parking
spaces.	(6)	The home occupation shall not generate greater vehicular or
pedestrian traffic than is normal for the district in which the home occupation
is located.	(7)	The use causes no public nuisance or disruption to the
residential character of the neighborhood.	(8)	No more than one client visit or
one client vehicle per hour shall be permitted, and only from 8:00 a.m. to 8:00
p.m. for all of the home occupations.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,188, Eff.
7/18/10.)	(9)	The home occupation shall not involve the use of commercial
vehicles for delivery of materials to or from the premises other than a vehicle
not to exceed one ton capacity, owned by the operator of the home occupation. 
There shall be no parking or storing of commercial vehicles on the site or on
public streets in connection with the home occupation.  As used herein,
commercial vehicles are as defined in the California Vehicle Code and, in
addition, shall include construction equipment or any other mobile paraphernalia
used in connection with such use.  No person shall store equipment including,
but not limited to, trailers or trucks in excess of one ton or wheeled
construction equipment on property zoned for residential
purposes.	(10)	Deliveries and pickups are limited to two per day for all of the
home occupations carried on in the dwelling, and only to services which normally
make deliveries to or pickups from households in residential areas.	(11)	No
material or mechanized equipment is utilized which is not associated with normal
residential use.	(12)	Incidental storage related to the home occupations may be
located in the dwelling unit, but shall not be located in any open areas,
covered patios or carports.  However, an attached or detached garage, provided
the required covered parking spaces are maintained, or a detached, fully
enclosed accessory building may be used for incidental storage, but such storage
area shall not exceed 400 square feet.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,696, Eff.
9/27/97.)	(13)	Any advertising for the home occupation does not contain the
address of the dwelling unit.	(14)	No excessive noise in violation of the
provisions of Sections 111.00, 112.00 and 114.00 of this Code is caused by the
use, nor any excessive light, dust, fumes, vibration or electrical interference
beyond that normally expected for a residential use.	(15)	No “extremely
hazardous substances,” as listed in Section 355 (Appendix A) of Title 40 of
the Code of Federal Regulations, are used, sold or stored on the site; and no
“hazardous materials,” as listed in Article 9, Title 22 of the California
Health and Safety Code, are utilized except those associated with normal
household use.	(16)	No space or equipment used in the home occupation is rented
out to other parties not residing on the premises.	(17)	Any “industrial
homework” (as defined by the California Labor Code) performed for an employer
conforms to the provisions of Sections 2650 et. seq. of the California Labor
Code.	(18)	The home occupation does not include any uses regulated under Section
12.24 or 12.27 of this Code.	(19)	No sales or exchange of products, processing,
manufacturing, display or servicing of any product is conducted on the premises,
except for handicrafts, or intellectual or artistic products, or direct sales,
or sales where the orders have been previously made by telephone, at a prior
meeting or a sales party, and in accordance with the other standards of
operation.  Nothing in this section shall be construed as to permit other
retail or wholesale sales in residential zones.  Nor shall anything in this
section be construed as allowing any type of on-site sales or distribution in
connection with truck gardening.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,188, Eff.
7/18/10.)	(20)	A person wishing to conduct a home occupation must obtain a City
business license, if a license is required to perform the occupation, from the
Office of Finance.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)	(21)	(Deleted by Ord. No. 172,170, Eff. 9/27/98.)	Monies collected from
registration fees and from any fines imposed for violations of these provisions
shall be deposited in the Home Occupation Trust Fund established pursuant to
Section 5.486 of the Los Angeles Administrative Code.  The money in this
account shall be used to offset the costs by the Department of Building and
Safety and the City Clerk’s Office for administering the provisions of the
home occupation ordinance.	(b)	Prohibited Uses.  Any use which disrupts, and is
inconsistent with, the residential character of the neighborhood is
prohibited.  The following home occupations, including but not limited to other
similar uses, and uses as determined by the Zoning Administrator are
prohibited:	Adult entertainment	Ambulance service	Animal training	Automotive
repair, painting, body/fender work, upholstering, detailing, washing, including
motorcycles, trucks, trailers and boats.	Beautician or barber	Body
piercing	Dentist, except as a secondary office which is not used for the general
practice of dentistry, but may be used for consultation and emergency treatment
as an adjunct to a principal office located elsewhere.	Funeral chapel or
home	Firearms manufacturing or sales	Garment manufacturing	Gunsmith	Massage
therapist, unless the therapist has procured a massage technician’s license
and a massage business license, as needed, from the Los Angeles Police
Department.
	Medical physician (non-psychiatric), except as a secondary office which is not
used for the general practice of medicine, but may be used for consultation and
emergency treatment as an adjunct to a principal office located
elsewhere.	Photography lab, other than for occupant’s own
use.	Recording/motion picture/video production studios, except for editing of
pre- recorded material.	Restaurant	Retail sales	Tattoo studio	Tow truck
service	Upholstery	Veterinary services and other uses which entail the
harboring, training, care, breeding, raising or grooming of dogs, cats, birds,
or other domestic animals on the premises, except those which are permitted by
this article (other than those owned by the resident)	Welding or machine
shop	Yoga/spa retreat center	(c)	Authority of The Director of Planning. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  Notwithstanding any
other provisions of this Code, the Director may require the discontinuance of a
home occupation if he or she finds that as operated or maintained there has been
a violation of any of the conditions or standards set forth in this section. 
The Director shall have the authority to prescribe additional conditions and
standards of operation for any category of home occupation which may require
additional conditions.	(d)	Administrative Fines.  An administrative fine of
$250.00 may be collected by the Department of Building and Safety for any
violation of the conditions and standards of Section 12.05A 16 (a) and
administrative fines of $500.00 may be collected for repeated violations
pursuant to the following provisions.  These administrative fine provisions are
in addition to any other fines and penalties authorized by law.  It shall be
unlawful to conduct any home occupation as set forth in Section 12.05A16(b) of
this Code.	(1)	Definitions.  As used in this subparagraph the term
“Superintendent” means the Superintendent of the Department of Building and
Safety.  The term “Department” means the Department of Building and
Safety.	(2)	Order to Comply.  For any home occupation found to be in violation
of Section 12.05A16(a) of this Code, the Superintendent shall send an Order to
Comply to the operator of the home occupation use.  The Order to Comply shall
clearly state the following:	(i)	The violation must be corrected by a Compliance
Date specified in the Order, which date shall be no more than 15 days from the
date the Order is mailed.	(ii)	Failure to correct the violation on or before the
Compliance Date may result in the imposition of an administrative fine in the
amount of $250.00.	(3)	Reinspection.  The Superintendent shall reinspect a
property for which an Order to Comply was issued pursuant to this paragraph
subsequent to the Compliance Date.	(4)	Failure to Correct Violation.  If any
violation specified in the Order to Comply is not corrected prior to the
Compliance Date as specified in the Order to Comply, an administrative fine of
$250.00 may be collected by the Department.	If  the Department determines that
a fine is due, then it shall notify the person cited by United States mail in a
sealed envelope, with postage paid.  If the person cited is the owner of the
property, the notice shall be addressed to the last known address of the owner
as that address appears in the last equalized assessment roll. If the person to
be cited is a tenant, the notice shall be addressed to the location where the
home occupation is being conducted. Service of the notice shall be deemed to
have been completed at the time of deposit with the United States Postal
Service.	The person cited shall remit the fine to the Department within 30 days
after the date of mailing of the notice.  If the person cited fails to do so,
then the Department, by sending a second notification by certified mail, may
demand payment of the fine from the person cited and may prohibit the issuance
of any building permit, license or approval to the cited persons until such fees
are paid.	(5)	Repeated Violations.  Notwithstanding any provision of this
subsection to the contrary, if an Order to Comply is issued for a violation of
Section 12.05A16, and after compliance with it a subsequent Order to Comply is
issued for a violation of the same section of this Code occurring within one
year of the date of the initial Order, an administrative fine of $500.00 may be
collected by the Department.	(6)	Discontinuance of Use.  (Amended by Ord. No.
173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  Three violations of any condition set
forth in Section 12.05 A.16.(a) of this Code which has resulted in an Order to
Comply being issued under Paragraph (d)(2) may result in the imposition of
proceedings to discontinue the home occupation use.  The Director shall have
jurisdiction to discontinue a home occupation use by giving notice to the record
owner of the home occupation by issuing A Notice of Intention to Discontinue the
Home Occupation (Notice).  The Notice shall provide an opportunity for the home
occupation user to either	(a)	submit information to the Director by a date
certain to show cause why the home occupation should not be discontinued
or	(b)	appear at a time and place before the Director pursuant to the procedures
prescribed in Section 12.24 of the Code to show cause why the use should not be
discontinued.	Upon the expiration of the time periods set forth in the Notice,
the Director may discontinue the home occupation use.	(e)	Truck Gardening. 
Truck gardening shall be subject to the provisions of this subdivision if the
main use of the lot is a dwelling.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,188, Eff.
7/18/10.)	B.	Restriction.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  For any lot designated as Public, Quasi-Public, Public/Quasi-Public
Use, Other Public, or Open Space on the land use map of the applicable community
or district plan; any lot shown on the map as having existing lakes, waterways,
reservoirs, debris basins, or similar facilities; any lot shown on the map as
the location of a freeway right-of-way; and any property annexed to the City of
Los Angeles where a plan amendment was not adopted as part of the annexation
proceedings:	Any of the uses permitted by Subsection A of this section shall
require prior approval in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.24.1 of
this Code.	C.	Area.  No building or structure nor the enlargement of any
building or structure shall be hereafter erected or maintained unless the
following yards and lot areas are provided and maintained in connection with
such building, structure or enlargement.	1.	Front Yard.  There shall be a front
yard of not less than twenty (20) per cent of the depth of the lot, but such
front yard need not exceed twenty–five (25) feet.	2.	Side Yards.  There shall
be a side yard on each side of a main building of not less than ten (10) percent
of the width of the lot, but such side yard need not exceed twenty–five (25)
feet and shall not be less than three (3) feet in width.	3.	Rear Yard.  There
shall be a rear yard of not less than twenty–five (25) per cent of the depth
of the lot, but such rear yard need not exceed twenty–five (25) feet.	4.	Lot
Area.  (Amended by Ord. No. 150,624, Eff. 4/13/78.) Every lot farm or other
parcel of land shall have a minimum average width of 300 feet and a minimum area
of five acres for all uses permitted in this section, except that:	(a)	The lot
area for goat or cattle dairies shall not be less than 20 acres.	(b)	The lot
area per dwelling unit shall be not less than two and one-half acres, but in no
case shall more than two dwellings be permitted on any one lot.	In no case shall
a farm or other parcel of land be reduced to less than five acres. Provided,
that where a lot has less width or less area than herein required and was held
under separate ownership or was of record at the time this article became
effective, such lot may be occupied by any use permitted in this section, except
for those uses as set forth in Subdivision 5 of Subsection A of this
section.	Exceptions to area regulations are provided for in Section 12.22C.
