                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

RU RESIDENTIAL URBAN ZONE. (§ 12.08.1)

  RU RESIDENTIAL URBAN ZONE.
	(Added by Ord. No. 161,716, Eff. 12/6/86.)	The following regulations shall
apply in the RU Residential Urban Zone:	A.	Purpose.  The regulations set forth
in this section are designed to encourage the subdivision of small single-family
residential lots for development with manufactured homes, including mobilehomes
installed on permanent foundations, factory-built homes, or conventional site
built homes. The small area and yard requirements are intended to facilitate the
economical and flexible use of land, thus increasing the City’s stock of lower
cost single-family housing. It is also the purpose of this zone to ensure that
such developments are located in proper relationship to other uses and are
compatible with those uses.	B.	Use.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff.
10/10/00.)  No building, structure or land shall be used and no building or
structure shall be erected, structurally altered, enlarged or maintained, except
for the following uses, and, when a “Supplemental Use District” is created,
for those uses as may be permitted in that district.  The provisions of this
section shall not apply to properties in a Hillside area as defined in Section
91.7003 of this Code and which exceed an average natural slope of 15 percent as
calculated according to the slope density formula used by the City Planning
Department.	1.	One-family dwellings, including factory-built  homes,
mobilehomes installed on permanent foundations and conventional site-built
homes.	2.	Parks, playgrounds or community centers, owned and operated by a
governmental agency.	3.	Conditional uses enumerated in Section 12.24 when the
location is approved pursuant to the provisions of that section.	4.	Accessory
buildings, including private garages and recreation rooms. For the location of
accessory buildings, refer to Sections 12.21C and 12.22C.	5.	Accessory uses and
home occupations, subject to the conditions specified in Section 12.05 A 16 of
this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,427, Eff. 1/4/97, Oper. 3/5/97.)	6.	Name
plates and signs, and required automobile parking spaces as provided for in
Section 12.21 A of this Code.  (Added by Ord. No. 171,427, Eff. 1/4/97, Oper.
3/5/97.)	C.	Area.  No building or structure shall be erected or maintained, nor
shall any building or structure be enlarged unless the following yards and lot
areas are provided and maintained in connection with such building, structure or
enlargement:	1.	Front Yard.  There shall be a front yard of not less than 10
feet in depth; provided, however, that when a lot is developed with a
mobilehome, pursuant to a change of zone where a “Q” Qualified Condition has
been imposed limiting the use of the lot to a mobilehome, there shall be a front
yard of not less than 7 feet in depth.	2.	Side Yards.  There shall be a side
yard of not less than 3 feet in width on each side of a main building. The
required side yard may be eliminated on one side of each lot, provided
that:	a.	The remaining side yard is increased to not less than 6 feet in
width;	b.	The buildings or structures are so located that the 0–foot side yard
on one lot adjoins the increased side yard on the adjoining lot;	c.	Prior to the
issuance of any building permit for the installation of a mobilehome,
factory–built home or a building permit for a conventional site–built home,
where a side yard is eliminated on one side of the lot and the remaining side
yard is increased to not less than six feet in width, pursuant to this section,
the owner or owners of that lot shall obtain from the owner or owners of the lot
abutting the zero–foot side yard an easement granting the right to ingress and
egress for maintenance purposes. That easement shall have a minimum width of
three feet and shall be located along the lot line adjacent to the zero–foot
side yard. That easement shall be recorded in the Office of the County Recorder
of Los Angeles County; and a copy of that recorded easement shall be submitted
to the Department of Building and Safety prior to the issuance of a building
permit;	d.	No exterior wall openings shall be permitted on the side of the
building or structure located on a lot line; and all requirements of Chapter IX,
Article I, shall be complied with;	e.	No accessory buildings or structures shall
be permitted in the increased side yard, notwithstanding any other provisions of
this article; and	f.	Reduced side yards shall not be permitted adjacent to lots
which are not developed with 0-foot side yards or are adjacent to a street,
alley or walkway.	3.	Rear Yard.  There shall be a rear yard of not less than 10
feet in depth; provided, however, that when a lot is developed with a
mobilehome, pursuant to a change of zone where a “Q” Qualified Condition has
been imposed limiting the use of the lot to a mobilehome, there shall be a rear
yard of not less than 3 feet in depth.	4.	Lot Area.  Every lot shall have a
minimum width of 35 feet and a minimum area of 3,500 square feet. Exceptions to
area regulations are provided for in Section 12.22C.	5.	Minimum Acreage.  A
minimum of five acres shall be required whenever property zoned R1 or designated
on an adopted community plan or district plan as corresponding to the R1 Zone or
a more restrictive zone is proposed to be reclassified in the RU
zone.	D.	Restriction. (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  For any lot designated as Public, Quasi-Public, Public/Quasi-Public
Use, Other Public, or Open Space on the land use map of the applicable community
or district plan; any lot shown on the map as having existing lakes, waterways,
reservoirs, debris basins, or similar facilities; any lot shown on the map as
the location of a freeway right-of-way; and any property annexed to the City of
Los Angeles where a plan amendment was not adopted as part of the annexation
proceedings:	Any of the uses permitted by Subsection B of this section shall
require prior approval in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.24.1 of
this Code.
