                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

“OS” OPEN SPACE ZONE. (§ 12.04.05)

  “OS” OPEN SPACE ZONE.
	(Added by Ord. No. 166,168, Eff. 10/3/90.)	The following regulations shall
apply in the “OS” Open Space Zone:	A.	Purpose.  It is the purpose of the
“OS” Open Space Zone to provide regulations for publicly owned land in order
to implement the City’s adopted General Plan, including the recreation, parks
and open space designations in the City’s adopted district and community
plans, and other relevant elements, including the Open Space, Conservation and
Public Recreation Elements. Implementation of the General Plan will serve to
protect and preserve natural resources and natural features of the environment;
to provide outdoor recreation opportunities and advance the public health and
welfare; to enhance environmental quality; to encourage the management of public
lands in a manner which protects environmental characteristics; and to encourage
the maintenance of open pace uses on all publicly owned park and recreation
land, and open space public land which is essentially unimproved.	B.	Use.  The
following regulations hall apply to publicly owned land classified in the
“OS” Open Space Zone:  no building, structure or land shall be used and no
building or structure shall be erected, moved onto the site, structurally
altered, enlarged or maintained, except for the following uses:	1.	The following
uses and activities when conducted in accordance with the limitations hereafter
specified.	(a)	Types of Uses.	(i)	Parks and recreation facilities, including:
bicycle trails, equestrian trails, walking trails, nature trails, park land/lawn
areas, childrens’ play areas, child care facilities, picnic facilities, and
athletic fields (not to exceed 200 seats in park) used for park and recreation
purposes.  (Amended by Ord. No. 176,545, Eff. 5/2/05.)	(ii)	Natural resource
preserves for the managed production of resources, including, but not limited
to, forest lands, waterways and watersheds used for commercial fisheries;
agricultural lands used for food and plant production; areas containing major
mineral deposits (“G” Surface Mining Districts) and other similar
uses.	(iii)	Marine and ecological preserves, sanctuaries and habitat protection
sites.	(iv)	Sanitary landfill sites which have received certificates of closure
in compliance with federal and state regulations.	(v)	Public water supply
reservoirs (uncovered) and accessory uses which are incidental to the operation
and continued maintenance of such reservoirs.	(vi)	Water conservation areas,
including percolation basins and flood plain areas.	(b)	Limitations:  (Amended
by Ord. No. 169,013, Eff. 9/28/93.)	(1)	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff.
10/10/00.)    The use may not be located on land which includes a lake, river,
or stream or which is designated by the City as an historic or cultural
landmark, unless approved as a conditional use pursuant to Section 12.24
U.19.	(2)	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)   Any change of use
from a conditional use or deemed to be approved conditional use described in
Section 12.24 U.19. of this Code to any of the above uses shall require
conditional use approval pursuant to Section 12.24.	2.	(Amended by Ord. No.
174,132, Eff. 9/3/01.)  Conditional uses as allowed pursuant to Section 12.24
U.19. and Section 12.24 W.49. of this Code when the location is approved
pursuant to the provisions of the applicable section.
