                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

“CR” LIMITED COMMERCIAL ZONE. (§ 12.12.2)

  “CR” LIMITED COMMERCIAL ZONE.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 148,783, Eff. 10/14/76.)	The following regulations shall
apply in the “CR” Limited Commercial Zone:	A.	Use – (Amended by Ord. No.
144,365, Eff. 4/5/73, Operative 9/1/73.) No building structure or land shall be
used and no building or structure shall be erected, structurally altered,
enlarged, or maintained, except for the following uses, and, when a
“Supplemental Use District” is created by the provisions of Article 3 of
this chapter, for such uses as may be permitted therein:	1.	The following uses
when conducted wholly within an enclosed building:	(a)	Bank, or financial
institution.	(b)	Business college, professional or scientific school or college
(classroom or lecture instruction only); not including a music school, trade
school, nor any school specializing in manual training, shop work or in the
repair or maintenance of machinery or mechanical equipment.	(c)	Club or lodge
(nonprofit).	(d)	Hotels (including motels), Apartment hotels, transient
occupancy residential structures or hostels when no portion of a structure
proposed to be used as a hotel (including a motel), apartment hotel, transient
occupancy residential structure or hostel is located within 500 feet from any A
or R zone.  (Amended by Ord. No 167,689, Eff. 5/9/92.)	(e)	Museum or library
(non-profit).	(f)	Office, general business or professional, including that of a
real estate or stock broker, or an insurance or building and loan
company.	(g)	Prescription pharmacy when conducted within a permitted office
building, provided: that entrances to the pharmacy are located inside of the
building; that no sign or other form of advertising is visible from outside the
office building; that no sign or other form of advertising is utilized in any
manner whatsoever outside of the building as a means of advertising the
prescription pharmacy; and that the prescription pharmacy remains open for
business only between the hours of 7:00 A.M. to 8:00 P.M., Monday through
Saturday.  (Amended by Ord. No. 165,403, Eff. 2/17/90.)	(h)	Counseling and
referral facilities.  (Added by Ord. No. 149,517, Eff.  5/26/77.)	1.5.	Child
care facilities or nursery schools.  (Added by Ord. No. 145,474, Eff.
3/2/74.)	2.	Church (except rescue mission or temporary revival).	3.	Park,
playground, or community center, owned and operated by a governmental
agency.	4.	Public parking area when located and developed as required in Section
12.21-A,6, with signs as permitted in Section 12.21.1-A,3.	4.5.	Any single
family dwelling, two-family dwelling or apartment house use permitted in the R4
Multiple Dwelling Zone provided that all the regulations of said zone are
complied with.  (Added by Ord. No. 148,783, Eff. 10/14/76.)	5.	School,
elementary or high, or educational institution.	6.	Signs indicating the name of
the person, business, or the type of business occupying the premises, or the
name of the building. Such signs shall be attached to a building and all
letters, lights and other identification matter shall be confined to only one
surface of the sign, which surface shall be parallel with and facing the front
lot line; except that on a corner lot such signs may be placed on a building so
that the surface on which the identification matter is confined, is parallel
with the side street lot line, or where a building is constructed with a
diagonal or curved wall facing the adjacent street intersection, the signs may
be attached to such wall so that the surface, on which the identification matter
is confined, is parallel thereto. No portion of any sign on a lot shall extend
along the side street more than 50 feet from the principal street upon which
said lot abuts (for the determination of the principal street, refer to
Subsection C of this section).	No portion of any such sign shall project more
than 12 inches beyond the wall of the building nor project above the roof ridge
or parapet wall (whichever is the higher) of the building.	A zoning
Administrator shall determine the application of these regulations concerning
the required placement of signs, where such regulations are difficult to apply
because of the unusual design of a building or its location on the lot, or
because of the odd shape of the lot.	Provided, however, that any name plate or
sign permitted on a lot in an R Zone by Section 12.21-A,7 shall likewise be
permitted on a lot in a CR Zone containing no building or
structure.	7.	Conditional uses enumerated in Section 12.24 when approved
pursuant to the provisions of said section.	8.	Other uses similar to those
listed in this subsection, when determined by a Zoning Administrator, as
provided for in Section 12.21-A,2, but not including stores, shops or other
establishments where goods, wares or merchandise are displayed, sold or
serviced.	9.	Uses (not involving open storage) customarily incident to any of
the above uses, and accessory buildings (including storage garages), when
located on the same lot.	10.	Automobile parking space required as provided in
Section 12.21-A,4 in connection with all uses permitted in this
zone.	11.	(Deleted by Ord. No. 171,687, Eff. 8/19/97.)	12.	Mini-shopping centers
which comply with the provisions of Section 12.22A23. (Added by Ord. No.
164,201, Eff. 1/10/89.)	13.	Restaurant, when conducted within a permitted office
building, provided: that entrances to the restaurant are located inside of the
building; that no sign or other form of advertising is visible from outside the
office building; that no sign or other form of advertising is utilized in any
manner whatsoever outside of the building as a means of advertising the
restaurant; that the restaurant remains open for business only between the hours
of 7 a.m. to 8 p.m., Monday through Saturday; and that no entertainment or
dancing is conducted or permitted. An outdoor eating area for a ground floor
restaurants may be located anywhere between the building and its required front
yard, or between the building and any required side or rear yard which side or
rear yard abuts a public street. (Amended by Ord. No. 165,403, Eff.
2/17/90.)	14.	Wireless antennas, including the associated equipment cabinets,
located on the rooftops of buildings when established in conformance with the
standards contained in Section 12.21 A.21. of this Code, and which are not
located within a scenic parkway specific plan, scenic corridor specific plan, a
roadway designated as a scenic highway within a specific plan area; or on the
rooftops of buildings that are designated on the National Register of Historic
Places, including Contributing Buildings in National Register Historic
Districts, the California Register of Historic Resources, the City of Los
Angeles List of Historic-Cultural Monuments, or a Contributing Structure located
in an Historic Preservation Overlay Zone (HPOZ) that has been established
pursuant to Section 12.20.3 of this Code.  (Added by Ord. No. 177,120, Eff.
12/26/05.)	B.	Restriction.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  For any lot designated as Public, Quasi-Public, Public/Quasi-Public
Use, Other Public, or Open Space on the land use map of the applicable community
or district plan; any lot shown on the map as having existing lakes, waterways,
reservoirs, debris basins, or similar facilities; any lot shown on the map as
the location of a freeway right-of-way; and any property annexed to the City of
Los Angeles where a plan amendment was not adopted as part of the annexation
proceedings:	Any of the uses permitted by Subsection A of this section shall
require prior approval in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.24.1 of
this Code.	C.	Area. (Amended by Ord. No. 144,365, Eff. 4/5/73 Operative,
9/1/73.) No building nor structure nor the enlargement of any building or
structure shall be erected or maintained unless the following yards, lot areas
and loading spaces are provided and maintained in connection with such building,
structure or enlargement.	In applying the provisions of this section, the front
lot line of a corner lot shall be the line separating said lot from the
principal street upon which it abuts. Where said lot abuts upon a major or
secondary highway such highway shall be construed as being the principal street.
Where a lot abuts upon two or more highways, and in all other cases, a Zoning
Administrator shall determine which street is the principal street.	1.	Front
Yard –  There shall be a front yard of not less than 10 feet in
depth.	2.	Side Yards – Side yards shall be required only in the following
instances:	(a)	Along the side street lot line of every corner lot in the CR
Zone.	(b)	Where the side lot line of the lot in the CR Zone abuts upon the side
of a lot in an A or R Zone.	(c)	For all portions of buildings erected and used
for residential purposes.	The width of the yard required along the side street
lot line shall be not less than 10 percent of the lot width but need not exceed
10 feet and shall not be less than five feet.	The width of the yard abutting an
A or R Zone or required for buildings erected and used for residential purposes
shall be not less than 10 percent of the lot width, but need not exceed five
feet and shall be not less than three feet. One foot shall be added to the width
of such side for each story above the second story, but such side yard need not
exceed 16 feet in width.	3.	Rear Yards – There shall be a rear yard of not
less than 15 feet in depth. One foot shall be added to the depth of such rear
yard for each additional story above the third story.	4.	Lot Area – The lot
area requirements of the R4 Zone (Section 12.11C4) shall apply to all portions
of buildings erected and used for residential purposes. (Amended by Ord. No.
148,783, Eff. 10/13/76.)	5.	Loading Space – As required by Section 12.21C6.
Exceptions to area regulations are provided in Section 12.22C.
