                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

“C5” COMMERCIAL ZONE. (§ 12.17)

  “C5” COMMERCIAL ZONE.	The following regulations shall apply in the
	A.	Use — No building, structure or land shall be used and no building or
structure shall be erected, structurally altered, enlarged or maintained, except
for the following uses, and, when a “Supplemental Use District” is created
by the provisions of Article 3 of this chapter, for such uses as may be
permitted therein:	1.	Any use permitted in the “C2” Zone, provided that all
regulations of said zone are complied with;	2.	Jewelry manufacturing, including
manufacturing of products from precious or semi-precious stones or metals.
(Amended by Ord. No. 154,899, Eff. 3/22/81.)	3.	(Amended by Ord. No. 162,335,
Eff. 6/6/87.)  Uses customarily incident to any of the above uses, and
accessory buildings, when located on the same lot. Open storage of materials and
equipment, including used materials and equipment, shall be permitted only when
incidental to the use of an office, store or other commercial building located
on the front portion of the same lot, and provided that:	(a)	Such storage is
located on the rear one-half of the lot and is confined to an area of not to
exceed three thousand (3,000) square feet;	(b)	No power driven excavating or
road building equipment is stored on the premises;	(c)	The storage area is
completely enclosed by a solid wall or fence not less than six feet in height
with necessary solid gates of the same height; and	(d)	No material or equipment
is stored to a height greater than that of the wall or fence enclosing the
storage area.	The phrase “used materials and equipment” includes vehicles,
boats, or airplanes which are inoperable, wrecked, damaged or unlicensed, i.e.
not currently licensed by the Department of Motor Vehicles.	4.	Automobile
parking space required for dwellings and for buildings other than dwellings, as
provided for in Section 12.21 A.4.	B.	Restriction.  (Amended by Ord. No.
173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  For any lot designated as Public,
Quasi-Public, Public/Quasi-Public Use, Other Public, or Open Space on the land
use map of the applicable community or district plan; any lot shown on the map
as having existing lakes, waterways, reservoirs, debris basins, or similar
facilities; any lot shown on the map as the location of a freeway right-of-way;
and any property annexed to the City of Los Angeles where a plan amendment was
not adopted as part of the annexation proceedings:	Any of the uses permitted by
Subsection A. of this section shall require prior approval in accordance with
the provisions of Section 12.24.1 of this Code.	C.	Area.  (Amended by Ord. No.
144,365, Eff. 4/5/73, Oper. 9/1/73.)  No building or structure nor the
enlargement of any building or structure shall be hereafter erected or
maintained unless the following yards, lot areas and loading spaces are provided
and maintained in connection with such building, structure or
enlargement:	1.	Yards – Not required for buildings erected and used
exclusively for commercial purposes;	For all portions of buildings erected and
used for residential purposes, side and rear yards conforming to the
requirements of the R4 Zone (Section 12.11 C.2. and 3.) shall be provided and
maintained at the floor level of the first story used for residential
purposes.	2.	Lot Area – The lot area requirements of the R4 Zone (Section
12.11 C.4.) shall apply to all portions of buildings erected and used for
residential purposes. (Amended by Ord. No. 148,783, Eff. 10/13/76.)	3.	Loading
Space – As required by Section 12.21 C.6. Exceptions to area regulations are
provided in Section 12.22 C.
