                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

“MR2” RESTRICTED LIGHT INDUSTRIAL ZONE. (§ 12.18)

  “MR2” RESTRICTED LIGHT INDUSTRIAL ZONE.
	(Renumbered by Ord. No. 148,969, Eff. 12/16/76.)	The following purpose and
regulations shall apply in the “MR2” Restricted Light Industrial
Zone.	A.	Purpose.	1.	To protect industrial land for industrial use, and prohibit
unrelated  commercial and other non-industrial uses.	2.	To provide a reasonable
range of interim uses in the zone, so that land owners can receive income from
temporary use, while the industrial land reserve is being protected for future
growth.	3.	upgrade industrial development standards:	a.	so that industry will be
a better neighbor to residences,	b.	to protect industrial investment against
incompatible industry, and	c.	to prevent future industrial slums.	4.	To preserve
industrial land for light industrial uses and non-retail businesses which will
enhance the City’s employment base.  (Added by Ord. No. 169,366, Eff.
4/1/94.)	5.	To reflect and accommodate the shift in industrial land uses from
traditional industrial activity to uses such as those involving record
management, Research and Development, information processing, electronic
technology, and medical research.  (Added by Ord. No. 169,366, Eff.
4/1/94.)	B.	Use.  (Amended by Ord. No. 148,969, Eff. 12/16/76.) – No
structure or land shall be used and no building or structure shall be erected,
structurally altered, enlarged or maintained, except for the following uses, or,
where a “Supplemental Use District” is created by the provisions of Article
3 of this chapter, for such uses as may be permitted therein:	1.	Any use
permitted in the MR1 Zone provided that all regulations of said zone are
complied with.	2.	The following uses:	a.	Bag cleaning (employing tabular vacuum
cleaning and efficient dust collecting equipment – in completely enclosed
building).	b.	Bolt or screw thread rolling or cutting.	c.	Bottle washing,
collection or storage (in a completely enclosed building).	d.	Box factory or
cooperage.	e.	Brewery.	f.	Canvas, cloth, cork, excelsior or textile
manufacturing.	g.	Carpet or rug manufacturing.	h.	Coil spring manufacturing
(inner springs for mattresses and upholstered furniture using only coiling and
knotting machines – light weight wire).	i.	Die casting.	j.	Electrical
equipment manufacturing.	k.	Enameling works.	l.	Fencing, woven wire,
manufacturing (from previously fabricated material – no
galvanizing).	m.	Insecticide or pesticide blending or mixing (previously
manufactured ingredients – cold process).	n.	Liquid fertilizer manufacturing
(from previously manufactured chemicals and other inorganic materials by
dissolving in water).	o.	Lubricating oil, canning and packaging.	p.	Match
manufacturing, safety paper only.	q.	Mortuary or mortuary schools, embalming
business or undertaking business.	r.	Pickle, yeast or vinegar manufacturing (in
a completely enclosed building).	s.	Roll forming of metal, cold
process.	t.	Aircraft factory. (Added by Ord. No. 148,969, Eff.
12/16/76.)	u.	Animal keeping or raising (no hog ranches having more than  5 
swine or stockyards or cattle-feeding yard). In no case, however, shall any new
animal kennel be constructed within 500 feet of a residential zone without
issuance of a conditional use permit.  (Amended by Ord. No. 150,138, Eff.
10/31/77.)	v.	Furniture manufacturing. (Added by Ord. No. 148,969, Eff.
12/16/76.)	w.	Oxygen or nitrogen manufacturing, compressing and bulk storage in
tanks. (Added by Ord. No. 148,969, Eff. 12/16/76.)	x.	Screw machine products
manufacturing. (Added by Ord. No. 148,969, Eff. 12/16/76.)	y.	Storage, sorting,
collecting or baling of rags, paper, scrap metal  or junk, when conducted
wholly within an enclosed building. (Added by Ord. No. 148,969, Eff.
12/16/76.)	3.	The following uses when conducted wholly within a completely
enclosed building or within an area enclosed on all sides with a solid wall or
solid fence not less than eight feet in height, when no materials or equipment
is stored to a height greater than that of the enclosing wall or fence (except
that in lumber yards lumber may be stored to a height greater than said wall or
fence) and the wall or fence is maintained as provided in Section 12.21-A,9. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 148,969, Eff. 12/16/76.)	a.	Building materials salvage
yard.	b.	Monument works.	c.	Planing mill or wholesale lumber yards.	d.	(Deleted
by Ord. No. 171,687, Eff. 8/19/97.)	4.	Other uses similar to the above as
provided for in Section 12.21-A.2 but not including uses which are or may become
obnoxious or offensive by emission of odor, dust, smoke, noise, gas, fumes,
cinders, vibration, refuse matter or water-carried waste, as determined by a
Zoning Administrator.	5.	Uses customarily incident to any of the above uses, and
accessory buildings when located on the same lot, provided:	a.	A dwelling shall
be considered to be a permissible accessory building only when it is designed
for and used solely by a watchman or caretaker (including his family) of an
industrial development or of a permitted use which requires 24-hour supervision
and is located on the same lot with such development or use.	b.	Open storage of
materials and equipment, including used materials and equipment, shall be
permitted only within an area enclosed on all sides with a solid wall or solid
fence not less than eight feet in height with necessary solid gates of the same
height. No material or equipment shall be stored to a height greater than that
of the wall or fence enclosing the storage area. However, storage in lumber
yards, other than storage of used materials or equipment may be at a height
greater than said wall or fence. The phrase “used materials and equipment”
includes vehicles, boats, or airplanes which are inoperable, wrecked, damaged or
unlicensed, i.e. not currently licensed by the Department of Motor Vehicles.
(Amended by Ord. No. 162,335, Eff. 6/6/87.)	c.	Signs or advertising structures
hall indicate only the name, occupation or nature of activities conducted,
services offered or the products sold or manufactured on the premises.	d.	Open
storage of materials and equipment, including used materials and equipment,
existing on a lot when it is zoned “MR,” shall be enclosed as described
herein. It shall be completely enclosed within a building or within an area
enclosed on all sides with a solid wall or solid fence, including necessary
solid gates, of a height sufficient to screen the use from public view, but in
no event less than eight feet in height, within one year after the lot is zoned
MR. The phrase “used materials and equipment” includes vehicles, boats, or
airplanes which are inoperable, wrecked, damaged or unlicensed, i.e. not
currently licensed by the Department of Motor Vehicles.  (Amended by Ord. No.
162,335, Eff. 6/6/87.)	6.	Public parking areas and parking buildings as primary
or accessory uses, and loading space required or provided in connection with the
permitted uses, as provided in Sections 12.21-A and 12.21-C.6 of this
Code.	C.	Area.  (Amended by Ord. No. 148,969, Eff. 12/16/76.)  No building or
structure nor the enlargement of any building or structure shall be hereafter
erected or maintained unless the following yards and lot areas are provided and
maintained in connection with such building, structure or enlargement.	1.	Front
Yard – On all lots 100 feet in depth or less, 5 feet; on all lots in excess of
100 feet in depth, 15 feet. All front yards shall be suitably landscaped and
maintained except for necessary driveways and walkways.	2.	Side Yard – Side
yards conforming to the requirements of the “R4” Zone (Section 12.11-C.2)
shall be provided and maintained in connection with buildings erected and used
principally for residential purposes.	3.	Rear Yard – No rear yard shall be
required for buildings erected and used exclusively for commercial or industrial
purposes. For buildings other than those erected and used exclusively for
commercial or industrial purposes, a rear yard, conforming to the requirements
of the “R4” Zone (Section 12.11-C.3) shall be provided and maintained at the
floor level of the first story used in whole or in part for residential
purposes.	4.	Lot Area – The lot area requirements of the “R5” Zone
(Section 12.12-C.4) shall apply to buildings erected and used exclusively for
dwelling purposes. For buildings other than those erected and used exclusively
for dwelling purposes such requirements shall apply only to that portion of a
building used for dwelling purposes.	D.	Fence Modifications.  Same as the MR1
Zone and subject to the same limitations of Section 12.17.5-E. (Added by Ord.
No. 146,030, Eff. 7/11/74.)	E.	Restriction.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff.
7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  For any lot designated as Public, Quasi-Public,
Public/Quasi-Public Use, Other Public, or Open Space on the land use map of the
applicable community or district plan; any lot shown on the map as having
existing lakes, waterways, reservoirs, debris basins, or similar facilities; any
lot shown on the map as the location of a freeway right-of-way; and any property
annexed to the City of Los Angeles where a plan amendment was not adopted as
part of the annexation proceedings:	Any of the uses permitted by Subsection B of
this section shall require prior approval in accordance with the provisions of
Section 12.24.1 of this Code.
