                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

RAS4 RESIDENTIAL/ACCESSORY SERVICES ZONE PURPOSE STATEMENT. (§ 12.11.5)

  RAS4 RESIDENTIAL/ACCESSORY SERVICES ZONE PURPOSE STATEMENT.
	(Added by Ord. No. 174,999, Eff. 1/15/03.)	The purpose of this zone is to
provide a mechanism to increase housing opportunities, enhance neighborhoods,
and revitalize older commercial corridors.  The RAS4 Zone is intended to
provide a tool to accommodate projected population growth in mixed use and
residential  projects that is compatible with existing residential
neighborhoods.	The following regulations shall apply in the RAS4
Residential/Accessory Services Zone:	A.	Use.  No building, structure or land
shall be used and no building or structure shall be erected, structurally
altered, enlarged, or maintained, except for the following uses,	1.	Any use
permitted in the “R4” Multiple Dwelling Zone.	2.	The following uses when
located on the ground floor of any residential building permitted in the
“R4” Multiple Dwelling Zone when conducted in accordance with the
limitations specified in Subsection B, below:	(a)	Bakery goods
shop;	(b)	Bank;	(c)	Barber shop or beauty parlor;	(d)	Book or stationery
store;	(e)	Childcare facility;	(f)	Clothes cleaning agency or pressing
establishment (excluding chemical processing);	(g)	Clothes store;	(h)	Clubs or
lodges, bridge clubs, fraternal or religious associations;	(i)	Community
facilities as defined in Section 13.09 B 3;	(j)	Recreation centers owned and
operated by governmental agencies;	(k)	Confectionery stores;	(l)	Counseling and
referral facilities;	(m)	Custom dressmaking or millinery stores;	(n)	Drug stores
or pharmacies;	(o)	Dry goods or notions stores;	(p)	Florist or gift
shops;	(q)	Grocery, fruit, or vegetable stores;	(r)	Hardware or electric
appliance stores (no repairs on premises);	(s)	Jewelry stores;	(t)	Joint
Live/work quarters;	(u)	Meat markets or delicatessens;	(v)	Offices, business or
professional;	(w)	Photographer;	(x)	Property management office;	(y)	Restaurants,
tea rooms or cafes (excluding dancing or entertainment and excluding restaurants
with drive-through services);	(z)	Schools;	(aa)	Shoe stores or shoe repair
stores;	(bb)	Laundries or cleaning establishments or a self-service type, using
only automatic machines with non-flammable cleaning fluid;	(cc)	Other uses
similar to the above list, when determined as provided for in Section 12.21 A
2;	(dd)	Uses (not involving open storage) customarily incident to any of the
above-named uses and accessory buildings (including storage garages) when
located on the same lot.  Automobile parking space required in connection with
permitted uses as provided for in Section 12.21 A 4;	(ee)	Facilities for the
development of software (including the reproduction of software and data) and
other computer and media-related projects and services, not including
hardware.	3.	Uses permitted in a “Supplemental Use District” when created
pursuant to the provisions of Article 3 of this chapter. B.	Restrictions and
Limitations.	1.	All merchandise shall be new and shall be sold at retail
only.	2.	All activities are conducted wholly within an enclosed building, except
that restaurants may have outdoor eating areas. 	3.	All products produced,
whether primary or incidental, are sold on the premises, and not more than five
persons are engaged in the production or in servicing of
materials.	4.	Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 12.21 A 7, each tenant
space may only have one exterior wall sign or projecting sign, not exceeding 20
feet square feet in area, provided the sign does not extend more than two feet
beyond the wall of the building, and does not project above the floor of the
story immediately above the ground floor.  Signs shall not be internally
illuminated.	5.	Prior approval in accordance with the provisions of Section
12.24.1 shall be required for any lot designated as Public, Quasi-Public,
Public/Quasi-Public Use, other Public, or Open Space on the land use map of the
applicable community or district plan; any lot shown on the map as having
existing lakes, waterways, reservoirs, debris basins, or similar facilities; any
lot shown on the map as the location of a freeway right-of-way; and any property
annexed to the City of Los Angeles where a plan amendment was not adopted as
part of the annexation proceedings:	C. 	Area.  No building or structure nor the
enlargement of any building or structure shall be erected or maintained unless
the following yards and lot areas are provided and maintained in connection with
the building, structure or enlargement.	1.	Front Yard. There shall be a front
yard of not less than five feet in depth, except that where the adjoining
building on each side maintains a front yard of less than five feet in depth,
the required front yard shall be the average of the front yards of the existing
building or buildings.	2. 	Side Yard.  Not required for the ground floor
portion of buildings, when the ground floor is used exclusively for commercial
purposes.  For all portions of buildings erected and used for residential
purposes, there shall be side yards of not less than five feet in width along
the residential potion of the perimeter of the building.	3.	Rear Yard.  There
shall be a rear yard of not less than 15 feet in depth when the subject property
is located adjacent to property zoned RD or more restrictive, otherwise there
shall be a rear yard of not less than five feet in depth.	4.	Lot Area.  Every
lot shall have a minimum width of 50 feet and a minimum area of 5,000 square
feet.  The minimum lot area per dwelling unit shall be 400 square feet of lot
area for each dwelling unit.	Provided, that where a lot has a width of less than
50 feet or an area of less than 5,000 square feet and was held under separate
ownership or was of record as of September 23, 1956, and the lot was created in
conformance with the Subdivision Map Act, the lot may be occupied by any use
permitted in this section, except for those uses explicitly requiring more than
5,000 square feet of lot area, and the lot area per dwelling unit shall be not
less than 400 square feet.  In no case, however, shall more than two dwelling
units be permitted where a lot has an area of less than 4,000 square feet.	The
minimum lot area per guest room shall be 200 square feet.	Exceptions to area
regulations are provided for in Section 12.22C.	5.	Loading Space.  A loading
space shall be provided in accordance with Section 12.21C6 for any building that
contains a commercial use on the ground floor.
