                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

“P” AUTOMOBILE PARKING ZONE. (§ 12.12.1)

  “P” AUTOMOBILE PARKING ZONE.	Land classified as a “P” Zone may also
be classified in either an “A” or “R” Zone. The following regulations
shall apply to the 	A.	Use – No building, structure or land shall be used and
no building or structure shall be erected, structurally altered, enlarged, or
maintained, except for the following uses, and, when a “Supplemental Use
District” is created by the provisions of Article 3 of this chapter, for such
uses as may be permitted therein:	1.	Public or private parking areas (subject to
the regulations of Section 12.21-A,5 and 6), including the use of such parking
areas for ingress to and egress from adjoining buildings. (Amended by Ord. No.
144,082, Eff. 12/11/72.)	2.	Parking buildings which are located entirely below
the natural or finished grade of the lot whichever is lower, and are designed to
be obscured from view, including parking buildings which are attached to or
integrated with buildings in other zones. Ducts and penthouses enclosing
ventilating equipment, if not closer than 50 feet to an A or R Zone, stair
shafts and guard railings around depressed ramps, may be located not to exceed 4
feet above grade. (Amended by Ord. No. 117,399, Eff. 12/4/60.)	3.	(Amended by
Ord. No. 140,890, Eff. 10/17/70.) — The following signs located on a public
parking area or parking building:	(a)	Internal traffic directional signs
indicating entrance or exit at each permitted driveway. Not more than two such
signs shall be permitted at each driveway nor shall any such sign have a surface
area in excess of six square feet.	(b)	Identification signs displaying only the
names of the operators or sponsors of the parking area (including customary
emblems or trademarks), the hours of operation and the parking charges made in
accordance with the following regulations:	(1)	On any lot there may be one such
sign not exceeding 25 square feet in area adjacent to any one street, except
when required by Sec. 103.202 of this Code. Such sign shall not be located
within 30 feet of an A or R Zone.	(2)	On a lot having at least 100 feet of
frontage along a major or secondary highway in lieu of the sign permitted by
Subparagraph (1), there may be an identification sign, the size of which shall
be calculated at a ratio of .25 square feet of sign area for each foot of said
frontage for the first 100 feet; at a ratio of.50 square feet of sign area for
each foot of said frontage beyond the initial 100 feet and up to a total of 200
feet of frontage; and at a ratio of .75 square feet of sign area for each foot
of said frontage beyond 200 feet and up to a total of 300 feet of frontage. In
no case shall this sign exceed 150 square feet in area, in which, if applicable,
advertising may be placed on both a front and back side; a dimension greater
than 15 feet on any one side; and on an overall height of 30 feet. Such sign
shall not be located within 50 feet of an A or R Zone, and not more than one
such sign may be located on any one lot frontage. Said sign may be of a pylon
type providing that the combined area of all individual identification plaques
do not exceed that allowed for the total lot frontage. Where such identification
sign is directly opposite and across the street from an A or R Zone, all
lettering and identifying matter shall be placed on a face of the sign which is
at right angles to the lot line abutting the highway at the nearest point to the
sign.	All signs permitted in the P Zone may be illuminated but shall comply with
the requirements set forth in Sec. 62.200 of this Code and shall not contain any
flashing, moving or animated parts or features.	(3)	All such signs abutting a
major or secondary highway or a local street shall be placed clear of the
ultimate street dedication line determined in accordance with the current
Standard Street Dimensions adopted by the City Planning Commission.	(4)	Where
the sign area has been previously determined and the lot frontage subsequently
altered either by sale, division of land, or other means, a new determination
based on the new lot frontages must be made by the Department of City Planning
for allowable sign areas in accordance with the provisions of this section.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, any existing signs which
are in excess of the size limitations contained in this section may be
maintained, provided that the owner or owners of record of all lots whose
frontages were included in the original frontage, record in the office of the
County Recorder a covenant or covenants, running with the land, in which said
owner or owners agree to erect no new signs until the existing signs which are
in excess of the size limitations contained in this section have been removed or
are made to conform to said size limitations. A copy of said recorded covenant
or covenants shall be filed with the Department of Building and Safety by said
owner or owners. Further, if said covenant or covenants are not recorded, any
existing signs which are in excess of the size limitations contained in this
section must be removed or made to conform to said size limitations within six
months of the date on which the frontage was altered. In addition, the applicant
shall advise the Superintendent of Building and Safety in writing within six
months that the existing signs which are in excess of the size limitations have
been removed.	EXCEPTION:  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)	The foregoing provisions shall not apply in those instances where a
sign island of C2 Zone has been established within a P-zoned area by means of a
zone change and/or the zone boundary adjustment procedure.  In those instances,
no building permits for the erection of signs in the surrounding P Zone shall be
issued without prior determination and authorization by the Director of Planning
in cases involving zone boundary adjustments, and for cases involving  a zone
change, the City Planning Commission or the Area Planning Commission pursuant to
Section 12.32.	4.	Uses customarily incident to the operation of a public parking
area, including parking guard or attendant shelters. There may be one such
shelter on each public parking area, and one additional shelter for each 300
feet of street frontage in excess of 300 feet. No such shelter shall have a
floor area in excess of 50 square feet. Such shelter shall not be located within
15 feet of any street, in any required yard area, not within 30 feet of an A or
R Zone.  (Added by Ord. No. 117,399, Eff. 12/4/60.)	5.	Where a lot in a P Zone
is also classified in an A or R Zone, such lot may be used either for any
purpose permitted in such A or R Zone, or for any purpose enumerated in this
subsection but in no event for both purposes.  (Added by Ord. No. 117,399, Eff.
12/4/60.)	6.	(Amended by Ord. No. 134,633, Eff. 7/17/67.)  Where a combination
of the C and P Zones has been established on a lot, a sign or cantilevered
canopy, which is permitted on the C Zone portion and is attached to a building
thereon, may project not more than 15 feet into the P Zone, provided that such
sign or cantilevered canopy is at least eight feet above the subjacent walkway
or established grade and that no vertical supports are located in the P
Zone.	Where an automobile service station development is to be located on
property part of which is in a “C” Zone and part of which is in a “P”
Zone, the underground storage tanks which are incidental to the service station
my be located in the “P” Zone, and the temporary parking of trucks for
purposes of servicing such tanks may be permitted in the “P”
Zone.	7.	Conditional uses as allowed pursuant to Section 12.24 W.49. of this
Code when the location is approved pursuant to the provisions of that section.
(Added by Ord. No. 174,132, Eff. 9/3/01.)	8.	Dwelling unit or units constructed
on a lot in a small lot subdivision and approved by the Advisory Agency,
pursuant to Article 7 of this Chapter in conformity with the provision of 12.22
C.27. of this Code. (Added by Ord. No. 176,354, Eff. 1/31/05.)	B.	Restriction. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  For any lot
designated as Public, Quasi-Public, Public/Quasi-Public Use, Other Public, or
Open Space on the land use map of the applicable community or district plan; any
lot shown on the map as having existing lakes, waterways, reservoirs, debris
basins, or similar facilities; any lot shown on the map as the location of a
freeway right-of-way; and any property annexed to the City of Los Angeles where
a plan amendment was not adopted as part of the annexation proceedings:	Any of
the uses permitted by Subsection A of this section shall require prior approval
in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.24.1 of this Code.	C.	Area.
Where a lot in a “P” zone is also classified as an “A” or “R” Zone,
the area regulations of such “A” or “R” Zone shall apply, except that
for a public parking area the front yard may be as provided for in Section 12.21
A.6.(a) of this Code. (Amended by Ord. No. 152,467, Eff. 7/14/79.)
