                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

“PB” PARKING BUILDING ZONE.* (§ 12.12.1.5)

  “PB” PARKING BUILDING ZONE.*	The following regulations shall apply in the
“PB” Parking Building Zone:	A.	Use – No building, structure or land shall
be used and no building or structure shall be erected, structurally altered,
enlarged or maintained, except for the following uses, and, when a
“Supplemental Use District” is created by the provisions of Article 3 of
this chapter, for such uses as may be permitted therein:	1.	Any use permitted in
the “P” Automobile Parking Zone.	2.	(Amended by Ord. No. 138,040, Eff.
3/23/69.)  Parking buildings, including those which are attached to or
integrated with buildings in other zones, provided that:	(a)	The buildings are
constructed with a continuous, enclosing wall at least three and one-half feet
in height at each floor level, except that the wall shall not be more than three
feet in height along those portions of the building within 15 feet of an
entrance or exit driveway opening. Said enclosing wall need not be solid but it
shall be constructed of material designed and arranged so as to effectively
block light emitted on a horizontal plane from the building. (Amended by Ord.
No. 160,273, Eff. 9/16/85.)	(b)	The vehicular entrances and exits to the
building are located and maintained in accordance with a plan approved by the
Department of Traffic so as to interfere as little as possible with pedestrian
and vehicular traffic on the adjacent street.	3.	Uses customarily incident to
the operation of a parking garage, including the furnishing of gasoline and oil,
and lubrication and polishing of automobiles and the exchanging of tires and
batteries, provided that all of such uses are conducted completely within the
building and not above the ground floor, and that no sign advertising such uses
is visible from outside the building. In no event shall the repairing or washing
of automobiles be permitted. (Amended by Ord. No. 122,569, Eff.
9/2/62.)	4.	Conditional uses as allowed pursuant to Section 12.24 W.49. of this
Code when the location is approved pursuant to the provisions of that section.
(Added by Ord. No. 174,132, Eff. 9/3/01.)	B.	Restriction.  (Amended by Ord. No.
173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  For any lot designated as Public,
Quasi-Public, Public/Quasi-Public Use, Other Public, or Open Space on the land
use map of the applicable community or district plan; any lot shown on the map
as having existing lakes, waterways, reservoirs, debris basins, or similar
facilities; any lot shown on the map as the location of a freeway right-of-way;
and any property annexed to the City of Los Angeles where a plan amendment was
not adopted as part of the annexation proceedings:	Any of the uses permitted by
Subsection A of this section shall require prior approval in accordance with the
provisions of Section 12.24.1 of this Code.	C.	Area.  No building or structure,
nor the enlargement of any building or structure shall be erected or maintained
unless the following yards are provided and maintained in connection with such
building, structure or enlargement:	1.	Front Yard.  Wherever any portion of a
frontage in which a “PB” zoned lot is located, is classified in an “A”,
“RE”, “RS”, “R1” or “R2” Zone or wherever the portion of the
frontage directly opposite and across the street from the lot in the “PB”
Zone is classified in an “A”, “RE”, “RS”, R1”, or “R2” Zone, a
front yard at least ten feet in depth shall be provided and maintained; except
that wherever any portion of a frontage in which a “PB” zoned lot is
located, is classified in an “RD”, “R3”, “R4”, or “R5” Zone, or
wherever the portion of the frontage directly opposite and across the street
from the lot in the “PB” Zone is classified in an “RD”, “R3”,
“R4” or “R5” Zone, a front yard at least five feet in depth shall be
provided and maintained. Except for the necessary driveway approaches, the
required front yard space shall be fully landscaped with lawn, trees, shrubs or
suitable ground cover, which shall be maintained in good condition at all times.
In no event shall said required front yard space be used for the parking of
automobiles. (Amended by Ord. No. 127,777, Eff. 8/1/64.)	2.	Side Yard.  Where
the side of a lot in the PB Zone abuts upon the side of a lot in an A or R Zone,
a five foot side yard shall be provided and maintained for buildings not more
than two stories in height. Where the side of a lot in the PB Zone abuts upon a
public street and is located in a frontage in which any portion is classified in
an A or R Zone, or is directly opposite and across the street from frontage in
the A or R Zone, a five-foot side yard shall be provided and maintained
adjoining said street line for buildings not more than two stories in height.
For buildings more than two stories in height, one foot shall be added to the
width of a required side yard for each additional story above the second story.
Except for the necessary driveway approaches or paved pedestrian access ways,
the required side yard space shall be landscaped with shrubs, trees or suitable
ground cover, which shall be maintained in good condition at all times. (Amended
by Ord. No. 138,040, Eff. 3/23/69.)	3.	Rear Yard.  Where the rear of a lot in
the PB Zone abuts upon a lot in an A or R Zone, a rear yard at least five feet
in depth shall be provided and maintained for a building not more than two
stories in height. For a building more than two stories in height, one foot
shall be added to the depth of such rear yard for each additional story above
the second story. Except for the necessary driveway approaches or paved
pedestrian access ways, the required rear yard space shall be landscaped with
shrubs, trees or suitable ground cover, which shall be maintained in good
condition at all times.
	4.	Exception. The provisions of this subsection concerning the requirements for
front, side and rear yards shall not apply to the basement portions of a
building which are completely below the natural or finished grade of the lot,
whichever is lower.  (Amended by Ord. No. 122,569, Eff. 9/2/62.)	* All property
within the City of Los Angeles in the PB Zone on the effective date of this
ordinance shall hereafter by classified as being in Height District No. 1.  The
Director of Planning is hereby instructed to make all changes necessary to carry
out the purposes and intent of this ordinance.
