                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

“MR1” RESTRICTED INDUSTRIAL ZONE. (§ 12.17.5)

  “MR1” RESTRICTED INDUSTRIAL ZONE.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 148,969, Eff. 12/16/76.)	The following purpose and
regulations shall apply to “MR1” Restricted Industrial
Zone:	A.	Purpose:	1.	To protect industrial land for industrial use, and prohibit
unrelated commercial and other non-industrial uses.	2.	To provide a reasonable
range or interim uses in this zone, so that land owners may receive income from
temporary use, while the industrial land reserve is being protected for future
growth.	3.	To upgrade industrial development standards,	a.	so that industry will
be a better neighbor to residences	b.	to protect industrial investment against
incompatible residential, commercial and industrial uses, and          
 	c.	to prevent future industrial blight.	4.  To preserve industrial land for
light industrial uses and to provide for non- retail businesses which enhance
the City’s employment base.  (Added by Ord. No. 169,366, Eff. 4/1/94.)	5.	To
reflect and accommodate the shift in industrial land use from traditional
industrial activity to uses such as those involving record management, Research
and Development, information processing, electronic technology, and medical
research.  (Added by Ord. No. 169,366, Eff. 4/1/94.)	B.	Use. (Amended by Ord.
No. 148,969, Eff. 12/16/76.) No building, structure or land shall be used and no
building or structure shall be erected, structurally altered, enlarged or
maintained, except for the following uses, or where a “Supplemental Use
District” is created by the provisions of Article 3 of this chapter, for such
uses as may be permitted therein.	1.	Any use specified in Section 12.17.1-A,2,
as first permitted in the CM Zone provided that all regulations of said zone are
complied with.	2.	(Amended by Ord. No. 156,994, Eff. 9/25/82.)  Any use
permitted in the C2 Commercial Zone, provided that these uses are conducted in
accordance with all building enclosure and fence enclosure limitations of said
C2 zone, and further provided:	(a)	Any such use is devoted primarily to the
manufacturing of products, or assembling, compounding, processing or treating of
materials and that all retail business conducted in connection with such use is
only incidental to the main use; or	(b)	Any such use is devoted primarily to the
development of software and other computer or media-related products or
services, or  (New Sub-para. (b) Added by Ord. No. 172,106, Eff.
8/14/98.)	(c)	Any such use is conducted only as an accessory use to the main 
use, and provides services for those persons employed on the premises. 
(Sub-para. (b) Renumbered Sub-para. (c) by Ord. No. 172,106, Eff.
8/14/98.)	3.	The following uses:	a.	Farming, nurseries, aviaries and apiaries. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 181,188, Eff. 7/18/10.)	b.	Bank.	c.	Clinic.	d.	Laboratory
or research and development center.	e.	Offices, accessory to the primary
industrial use of the lot, and showrooms for products produced on the premises;
provided that the total floor area of such offices and showrooms does not exceed
the floor area of the primary industrial use, and that all of the merchandise
sold during each calendar month is sold at wholesale.  (Amended by Ord. No.
169,366, Eff. 4/1/94.)	f.	Printing and publishing, wholesale.	g.	Recreation
facility, open or enclosed, as an accessory use incidental to the primary
industrial use of the lot, provided that such recreation facility shall not
exceed 10 percent of the total lot area. (Amended by Ord. No. 159,916, Eff.
7/7/85.)	h.	Restaurant (including cafe), as an accessory use incidental to the
primary industrial use of the lot and for the exclusive use of persons employed
on such lot and provided that there shall be no outdoor signs advertising such
restaurant. (Amended by Ord. No. 159,916, Eff. 7/7/85.)	(i)	Corporate
headquarters, record-keeping and computer support facilities for the processing
of retrievable information and systems control.  (Added by Ord. No. 169,366,
Eff. 4/1/94.)	(j)	Office buildings if used only for offices of industrial firms,
industrial engineering firms, and other professional, administrative, and
clerical services needed by industries in the area.  (Added by Ord. No.
169,366, Eff. 4/1/94.)	(k)	Facilities for the development and/or production and
manufacture of computer and media-related products and services, including
hardware.  (Added by Ord. No. 172,106, Eff. 8/14/98.)	(l)	Wireless antennas,
including the associated equipment cabinets, located on the rooftops of
buildings when established in conformance with the standards contained in
Section 12.21 A.21. of this Code, and which are not located within a scenic
parkway specific plan, scenic corridor specific plan, or a roadway designated as
a scenic highway within a specific plan area; or on the rooftops of buildings
that are designated on the National Register of Historic Places, including
Contributing Buildings in National Register Historic Districts, the California
Register of Historic Resources, the City of Los Angeles List of
Historic-Cultural Monuments, or a Contributing Structure located in an Historic
Preservation Overlay Zone (HPOZ) that has been established pursuant to Section
12.20.3 of this Code.  (Added by Ord. No. 177,120, Eff. 12/26/05.)	4.	The
following uses when conducted wholly within a completely enclosed building,
except for incidental storage, and conducted in accordance with the limitations
hereafter specified:	a.	The manufacturing, compounding, processing or treating
of such products as drugs, pharmaceuticals, and perfumed toilet soap (no
refining or rendering of fats or oils).	b.	The manufacturing, compounding,
assembling, or treating of articles or merchandise from the following previously
prepared materials, cork, feather, fibre, hair, horn, tobacco, and paint (not
employing a boiling process).	c.	The manufacturing of ceramic products, provided
that there is no pulverizing of clay.	d.	The manufacturing of concrete or cement
products.	e.	The manufacturing and maintenance of electrical and neon signs,
billboards, commercial advertising structures, light sheet metal products,
including heating and ventilating ducts and equipment, cornices, eaves and the
like.	f.	The manufacturing of food products (except fish products, sauerkraut,
vinegar, yeast, or the rendering or refining of fats and oils), provided that no
noxious or offensive odors are permitted to emanate from the premises.	g.	The
manufacture of machine belting from previously tanned leather.	h.	The
manufacturing of musical instruments, toys, novelties, and metal stamps.	i.	The
manufacturing of plastic, rubber or synthetic rubber products,  such as
washers, gloves, bathing caps, tableware, buttons, stamps, mats, and the like,
not involving the use of rolling mills of more than 60 inches in length, or the
use of Banbury Mills.	j.	Blacksmith shops and machine shops not involving the
use of drop hammers, automatic screw machines, or punch presses with a rated
capacity of over 20 tons; provided, that punch presses with a rated capacity of
over 20 tons may be used, if they are located within the building and are
installed and cushioned in accordance with a plan which the Department of
Building and Safety has determined will satisfactorily prevent the emanation of
objectionable noise and vibration to adjoining property.	k.	Distribution,
plants, parcel delivery service, ice and cold storage plants, a bottling
plants.	l.	Laundry, cleaning and dyeing works, and carpet and rug cleaning 
plants.	m.	(None)	n.	Truck repairing or overhauling; wholesale automobile
assembling, rebuilding or conditioning; wholesale rebuilding of automobile parts
accessories or assemblies; tire retreading or recapping; battery manufacturing;
and the like.	o.	Veterinary, dog and cat hospitals, kennels, or facilities for
breeding and boarding of animals (no outside keeping of animals – no open
runs).  In no case, however, shall any new kennel or animal breeding and
boarding facility be constructed where any portion of the parcel is located
within 500 feet of a residential zone without obtaining a conditional use permit
pursuant to Section 12.24 of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 169,013, Eff.
9/28/93.)	p.	Woodworking shops and sash and door manufacturing including only
incidental mill work; provided that if a planner, router, sticker or moulder is
maintained, all doors and windows in the outside walls of the room in which said
machinery is located, shall be kept closed while said machinery is in
use.	q.	Cannery or bottling plant (except fish products or sauerkraut). (Amended
by Ord. No. 148,969. Eff. 12/16/76.)	r.	Cigarette factory.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 148,969, Eff. 12/16/76.)	s.	Electroplating works. (Amended by Ord. No.
148,969, Eff. 12/16/76.)	t.	Furniture manufacturing (only incidental mill work
– planers, routers, stickers, and moulders operated in room with doors and
windows closed).  (Amended by Ord. No. 148,969, Eff.
12/16/76.)	u.	(None)	v.	Heat treating, case hardening, tempering, apply solid
film lubricants and similar processing of small parts used in manufacturing of
mechanical apparatus, devices or equipment.  (Amended by Ord. No. 148.969, Eff.
12/16/76.)	w.	Metal spinning.  (Amended by Ord. No. 148,969, Eff.
12/16/76.)	5.	The following uses when conducted wholly within a completely
enclosed building or within an area enclosed on all sides with a solid wall or
solid fence not less than six feet in height, when no material or equipment is
stored to a height greater than that of the enclosing wall or fence and the wall
or fence is maintained as provided in Section 12.21-A.9:	a.	Building material
sales yard, including the sale of rock, sand, gravel and the like as an
incidental part of the main business, but excluding concrete
mixing.	b.	Contractor’s equipment storage yard or plant.	c.	Draying,
freighting, or trucking yard or terminal.	d.	Lumber yard, retail, including only
incidental mill work; provided that any planer, router, sticker or moulder used
for such mill work shall be maintained in a completely enclosed building or room
within a building, and that all doors and windows in the outside walls of such
building or room shall be kept closed while said machinery is in use.	e.	Motion
picture, television, video and other media production, with outdoor sets. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 172,106, Eff. 8/14/98.)	f.	Open storage, not including the
storage of impounded, abandoned, partially dismantled, obsolete or wrecked
automobiles or similar equipment, or salvage, junk or scrap metal yards,
provided no material or equipment is stored to a height greater than that of the
wall or fence enclosing the storage area.	g.	Parking of trucks or
buses.	h.	Public utility service yard or electrical receiving or transforming
station.	i.	Small boat building, except shipbuilding.	6.	Other uses similar to
the above, as provided in Section 12.21-A.2 but not including uses which are or
may become obnoxious or offensive by reason of emission of odor, dust, smoke,
noise, gas, fumes, cinders, vibration, refuse matter or water-carried waste, as
determined by a Zoning Administrator.	7.	Conditional uses enumerated in Section
12.24 when the location is approved pursuant to the provisions of said
section.	8.	Public parking areas and parking buildings as primary or accessory
uses, and loading space required or provided in connection with the permitted
uses, as provided in Section 12.21-A and 12.21-C.6 of this Code.	9.	Uses
customarily incident to any of the above uses, and accessory buildings when
located on the same lot, provided:	a.	A dwelling shall be considered to be a
permissible accessory building only when it is designed for and used solely by a
watchman or caretaker (including his family) of an industrial development or of
a permitted use which requires 24-hour supervision and is located on the same
lot with such development or use.	b.	(Amended by Ord. No. 162,335, Eff. 6/6/87.)
Open storage of materials and equipment, including used materials and equipment,
shall be permitted only within an area enclosed on all sides with a solid wall
or fence not less than six feet in height. No material or equipment shall be
stored to a height greater than that of the wall or fence enclosing the storage
area, except that storage in lumber yards may be at a height greater than said
wall or fence.	The phrase “used materials and equipment” includes vehicles,
boats, or airplanes which are inoperable, wrecked, damaged or unlicensed i.e.
not currently licensed by the Department of Motor Vehicles.	c.	Signs or
advertising structures shall indicate only the name, occupation, or nature of
activities conducted, services offered or the product sold or manufactured on
the premises.	d.	Open storage of materials and equipment, including used
materials and equipment existing on a lot when it is zoned “MR,” shall be
enclosed as described herein. It shall be completely enclosed  within a
building or within an area enclosed on all sides with a solid wall or solid
fence of a height sufficient to screen the use from public view, but in no event
less than six feet in height within one year after a lot is zoned MR. The phrase
“used materials and equipment” includes vehicles, boats, or airplanes which
are inoperable, wrecked, damaged or unlicensed, i.e. not currently licensed by
the Department of Motor Vehicles. (Amended by Ord. No. 162,335, Eff.
6/6/87.)	C.	Limitations.  (Amended by Ord. No. 146,030, Eff. 7/11/74.)  All
required buildings and enclosing walls or fences shall be so constructed, the
machinery and equipment shall be so installed and maintained, and the activity
shall be so conducted, that all noise, vibration, dust, odor and all other
objectionable factors, shall be confined or reduced to the extent that no
annoyance or injury will result to persons residing in the vicinity.	Whenever
there is any difficulty in determining the application of these provisions to
any specific case, the Department of Building and Safety shall make such
determinations.	D.	Area.  (Amended by Ord. No. 148,969, Eff. 12/16/76.)  No
building or structure nor the enlargement of any building or structure shall be
hereafter erected or maintained unless the following yards and lot areas are
provided and maintained in connection with such building, structure or
enlargement:	1.	Front Yard – On all lots 100 feet in depth or less, 5 feet; on
all lots in excess of 100 feet in depth, 15 feet. All front yards shall be
suitably landscaped and maintained except for necessary driveways and
walkways.	2.	Side Yards – Side yards conforming to the requirements of the
“R4” Zone (Section 12.11-C.2) shall be provided and maintained in connection
with buildings erected and used principally for residential purposes.	3.	Rear
Yard – No rear yard shall be required for buildings erected and used
exclusively for commercial or industrial purposes, a rear yard conforming to the
requirements of the “R4” Zone (Section 12.11-C.3) shall be provided and
maintained at the floor level of the first story used in whole or in part for
residential purposes.	4.	Lot Area – The lot area required of the “R4” Zone
(Section 12.11-C.4) shall apply to buildings erected and used exclusively for
dwelling purposes. For buildings other than those erected and used exclusively
for dwelling purposes such requirements shall apply only to that portion of a
building used for dwelling purposes.	5.	Loading Space – As required by Section
12.21-C.6. Exceptions to area regulations are provided for in Section
12.22-C.	E.	Fence Modification.  (Added by Ord. No. 146,030, Eff.
7/11/74.)	1.	Authority of Director – The Director of Planning or his
authorized     representative, upon application, may defer the wall or fence
requirements of this section, for portions of walls or fences, in the following
instances:	a.  Where adjoining property is located in the M2 or M3 Zone and is
developed with any of the uses first listed in Section 12.19-A or Section
12.20-A.	b.	Where substantial fences, walls, buildings or geographic features
are located on the subject property or on adjacent property and serve to enclose
the subject use as well or more effectively than the wall or fence required by
this section.	2.	Compliance – Should the use, fence, wall or building
providing justification for such modification be removed, such wall or fence
shall be provided in compliance with this section within six months from the
date of such removal.	F.	Restriction.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff.
7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  For any lot designated as Public, Quasi-Public,
Public/Quasi-Public Use, Other Public, or Open Space on the land use map of the
applicable community or district plan; any lot shown on the map as having
existing lakes, waterways, reservoirs, debris basins, or similar facilities; any
lot shown on the map as the location of a freeway right-of-way; and any property
annexed to the City of Los Angeles where a plan amendment was not adopted as
part of the annexation proceedings:	Any of the uses permitted by Subsection B of
this section shall require prior approval in accordance with the provisions of
Section 12.24.1 of this Code.
