                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

“M1” LIMITED INDUSTRIAL ZONE. (§ 12.17.6)

  “M1” LIMITED INDUSTRIAL ZONE.
	(Renumbered by Ord. No. 148,969, Eff. 12/16/76.)	The following regulations
shall apply in the 	A.	Use.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  No
building, structure or land shall be used and no building or structure shall be
erected, structurally altered, enlarged or maintained, except for the following
uses, and when a “Supplemental Use District” is created, for those uses as
may be permitted in that district:	1.	Any use permitted in the MR1 Zone provided
that all regulations of the zone are complied with, except that front yard
setbacks are not required.	2.	Any commercial use permitted in the C2 Zone except
sanitariums and hospitals, provided that these uses are conducted in accordance
with all building enclosure and fence enclosure limitations of the C2
Zone.	3.	The following uses when conducted wholly within a completely enclosed
building, except for incidental storage.	(a)	Foundry, except iron or brass; or
those in which noxious fumes or odors are produced.	(b)	Poultry or rabbit
killing incidental to a retail business on the same premises.	(c)	Rental of
equipment commonly used by contractors, including rental, storage, or storage
for rental purposes of household moving rental trucks and utility rental
trailers or commercial vehicles of any weight.	4.	Stadiums, arenas, auditoriums
and the like, having a seating capacity of more than 3,000 people.	5.	Other uses
similar to the above, as provided for in Section 12.21A2, but not including uses
which are or may become obnoxious or offensive by reason of omission of odor,
dust, smoke, noise, gas, fumes, cinders, vibration, refuse matter or
water-carried waste, as determined by a Zoning Administrator.	6.	Uses
customarily incident to any of the above uses, and accessory buildings when
located on the same lot, provided:	(a)	A dwelling shall be considered to be a
permissible accessory building when it is designed for and used solely by a
watchman or caretaker (including his or her family) of an industrial development
or of a permitted use that requires a 24-hour supervision, and is located on the
same lot with the development or use;	(b)	Open storage of materials and
equipment, including used materials and equipment, shall be permitted only
within an area enclosed on all sides with a solid wall or fence, no less than
six feet in height with necessary solid gates of the same height.	The phrase
“used materials and equipment” includes vehicles, boats, or airplanes which
are inoperable, wrecked, damaged or unlicensed, i.e., not currently licensed by
the Department of Motor Vehicles.	7.	Automobile parking spaces required for
dwellings and for buildings other than dwellings, as provided for in Section
12.21A4.	8.	Official Police Garages as designated by the Los Angeles Police
Commission for the storage of impounded, abandoned or partially dismantled
automobiles, subject to the following limitations:	(a)	the use is located 300
feet or more from property in an A or R zone;	(b)	the use is conducted wholly
within an area completely enclosed with a solid masonry wall or solid fence no
less than eight feet in height with necessary solid gates of the same
height;	(c)	no dismantling of vehicles or crushing, smashing, baling or
reduction of metal takes place on the premises;	(d)	all property adjacent to any
street is landscaped to a minimum depth of two feet measured at a right angle
from the adjacent street, and extending the full length of property contiguous
to the street except for area necessary for ingress and egress; and	(e)	paved
off-street parking spaces are provided for buildings as required by Section
12.21 A, and in addition for all other portions of the lot, other than public
parking areas, as follows:	(1)	for one or fewer acres, a minimum of six
spaces;	(2)	for more than one acre but not more than two acres, one space for
each 12,000 square feet of lot area; and	(3)	for each acre exceeding two acres,
one space for each acre of lot area; and	(f)	no material shall be stored to a
height greater than the height of the enclosing wall or fence.	9.	Indoor swap
meets when authorized pursuant to the provisions of Section 12.24
W.42.	10.	Storage buildings for household goods, including truck rentals,
provided the building or structure is more than 500 feet from an A or R Zone or
residential use as measured from the lot lines, and the building or structure is
no more than 37 feet in height.  (Added by Ord. No. 173,979, Eff.
6/29/01.)	11.	Wireless telecommunication facilities, including radio and
television transmitters, which meet all the requirements of the wireless
telecommunication facilities standards set forth in Section 12.21 A.20. of this
Code, except when located across the street from, abutting, or adjoining a
residential use or A or R Zone, including the RA zone.  (Added by Ord. No.
174,132, Eff. 9/3/01.)	12.	Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 12.22 A.28.
of this Code to the contrary, a primary used automobile and trailer sales area,
provided that the automobile and trailer sales area is located and developed in
compliance with the provisions of Section 12.21 A.6. of this Code, and that any
incidental repair of automobiles or trailers is conducted wholly within a
building. (Added by Ord. No. 178,382, Eff. 3/24/07.)	13.	(Added by Ord. No.
178,382, Eff. 3/24/07.)  Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 12.22 A.28.
of this Code to the contrary, automotive repair, provided that all of the
following conditions are met:	(a)	The lot containing the automotive repair use
is located more than 500 feet from any school, lot with a Certificate of
Occupancy for a one-family dwelling, multiple-family dwelling, or mixed use
project containing a residential use, or an A or R zone.  If the lot is located
500 feet or less from any school, lot with a Certificate of Occupancy for a
one-family dwelling, multiple-family dwelling, or mixed use project containing a
residential use, or an A or R zone, automotive repair is prohibited unless
approved pursuant to the provisions of Section 12.24 W.4. of this Code.	(b)	All
automotive spray painting shall be conducted in full compliance with the
provisions of Article 7, Chapter V of this Code, regulating these installations;
provided further, that any spray painting shall be done within a
building.	(c)	All other operations shall be conducted wholly within a building
enclosed on at least three sides, except for the following activities, which may
be conducted within the first 18 feet in depth in front of the garage bay door
measured perpendicular to the entire length of the building wall containing a
garage bay door, provided that this area does not displace any required
parking:	(1)	electrical diagnostics;	(2)	battery charging and changing;	(3)	tire
removal and replacement, so long as the vehicle is elevated no more that 12
inches off the ground measured to the bottom of the tire.  A portable hoist may
be used for this function only.	(d)	Except as provided in Paragraph (c)(3)
above, automotive hoists, of any type or size, shall be located and operated
only inside a building enclosed on at least three sides.	(e)	A minimum of 500
square feet of storage area shall be provided (open storage shall comply with
Section 12.14 A.42. of this Code);	(f)	Notwithstanding Paragraphs (a) and (c) of
this subdivision, an automotive sound shop or automotive alarm shop shall be
permitted if it complies with the following:	(1)	all operations are wholly
conducted within a fully enclosed building; and	(2)	no portion of the building
or its associated parking area shall be within 50 feet of any school, lot with a
Certificate of Occupancy for a one-family dwelling, multiple-family dwelling, or
mixed use project containing a residential use, or an A or R zoned
lot.	14.	(Added by Ord. No. 178,382, Eff. 3/24/07.)  Notwithstanding the
provisions of Section 12.22 A.28. of this Code to the contrary, automotive
laundry or wash rack, in which power driven or steam cleaning machinery is used
or any coin-operated automotive laundry or wash rack.	(a)	Any automotive laundry
or wash rack, in which power driven or steam cleaning machinery is used shall
maintain noise levels below the levels provided in Table II of Section 111.03 of
this Code.	(b)	The comparison between the noise emanating from the automotive
laundry or wash rack and from Table II shall be made in the manner set forth in
Section 111.02(a) of this Code.	(c)	Every wash rack shall be constructed or
arranged so that entrances, exits, and openings shall not face any residentially
zoned property within 100 feet of the entrances, exits or
openings.	B.	Restriction.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  For any lot designated as Public, Quasi-Public, Public/Quasi-Public
Use, Other Public, or Open Space on the land use map of the applicable community
or district plan; any lot shown on the map as having existing lakes, waterways,
reservoirs, debris basins, or similar facilities; any lot shown on the map as
the location of a freeway right-of-way; and any property annexed to the City of
Los Angeles where a plan amendment was not adopted as part of the annexation
proceedings:	Any of the uses permitted by Subsection A. of this section shall
require prior approval in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.24.1 of
this Code.	C.	Area – No building or structure nor the enlargement of any
building or structure shall be hereafter erected or maintained unless the
following yard and lot areas are provided and maintained in connection with such
building, structure or enlargement:	1.	Front Yard –  Not required.	2.	Side
Yard –  Side yard conforming to the requirements of the “R4” Zone (Sec.
12.11 C.2.) shall be provided and maintained in connection with buildings
erected and used principally for residential purposes.	3.	Rear Yard – No rear
yard shall be required for buildings erected a used exclusively for commercial
or industrial purposes. For buildings other than those erected and used
exclusively for commercial or industrial purposes, a rear yard conforming to the
requirements of the “R4” Zone (Sec. 12.11 C.3.) shall be provided and
maintained at the floor level of the first story used in whole or in part for
dwelling purposes.	4.	Lot Area – The lot area requirement of the “R4” Zone
(Sec. 12.11 C.4.) shall apply to buildings erected and used exclusively for
dwelling purposes. For buildings other than those erected and used exclusively
for dwelling purpose such requirements shall apply only to that portion of a
building used for dwelling purposes.	5.	Loading Space – as required by Sec.
12.21 C.6.	Exception to Area relations are provided for in Sec. 12.22 C.
