                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

“CM” COMMERCIAL MANUFACTURING ZONE. (§ 12.17.1)

  “CM” COMMERCIAL MANUFACTURING ZONE.	The following regulations shall apply
in the “CM” Commercial Manufacturing Zone:	A.	Use – No building, structure
or land shall be used and no building or structure shall be erected,
structurally altered, enlarged or maintained, except for the following uses,
and, when a “Supplemental Use District” is created by the provisions of
Article 3 of this chapter for such uses as may be permitted therein:	1.	Any use
permitted in the C2 Zone, provided that these uses are conducted in full
compliance with all of the regulations of the zone, except that these uses may
be conducted as wholesale businesses without limitation on the floor area used
for storage.  Provided further that residential uses shall be permitted but
shall be limited to shelters for the homeless, joint living and work quarters,
and those uses permitted in the R3 Multiple Residential Zone, which R3 uses
shall be in compliance with all the regulations of the R3 Zone, except that
front yard setbacks are not required.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,133, Eff.
5/11/10.)	Provided further that the following uses are prohibited in the CM
Zone:	(a)	churches;	(b)	child care facilities or nursery schools unless
permitted by Section 12.22 A.3. or approved pursuant to the provisions of
Section 12.24;	(c)	fraternity or sorority houses or dormitories;	(d)	hospitals
or sanitariums unless approved pursuant to the provisions of Section
12.24;	(e)	museums or libraries;	(f)	schools or educational institutions unless
approved pursuant to the provisions of Section 12.24;	(g)	indoor swap meets,
unless approved pursuant to the provisions of Section 12.24.	2.	The following
manufacturing and industrial establishments and uses, when conducted in
accordance with the limitations hereinafter specified:	(a)	Types of
Uses:	(1)	The manufacturing, assembling, compounding or treating of articles or
merchandise from the following previously prepared materials: bone, canvas,
cloth, felt, fur, glass, leather (except machine belting), paper, plastics,
shell, textiles and yarn;	(2)	Assembly of electrical appliances, electronic
instruments and devices, and radios and phonographs, including the manufacture
of small parts only, such as coils, condensers, transformers, crystal holders,
and the like;	(3)	Ceramic products manufacturing, provided that the total
capacity of all kilns in any one establishment may not exceed eight cubic feet
and that there shall be no pulverizing of clay;	(4)	Scientific instrument and
equipment manufacturing or precision machine shop.	(5)	Addressograph
service.	(6)	Bakery or bakery goods distributor.	(7)	Book bindery.	(8)	Box lunch
preparation or catering establishment.	(9)	Candy, confectionery or ice cream
manufacturing.	(10)	Cosmetics, toiletries (except soap) or perfume manufacturing
or blending.	(11)	Jewelry manufacturing, including manufacturing of products
from precious or semi-precious stones or metals.	(12)	Laboratories,
experimental, film, motion picture, research and testing.	(13)	(Deleted by Ord.
No. 172,106, Eff. 8/14/98.)	(14)	Optical goods manufacturing.	(15)	Packaging
business.	(16)	Storage building or warehouse.	(b)	Limitations:	(1)	All
activities other than incidental storage shall be conducted wholly within a
completely enclosed building.	(2)	The building shall be so constructed, the
machinery and equipment shall be so installed and maintained, and the activity
shall be so conducted, that all noise, vibration, dust, odor and all other
objectionable factors, shall be so confined or reduced to the extent that no
annoyance or injury will result to persons residing in the vicinity. Whenever
there is any difficulty in determining the application of these provisions to
any specific case, the Department of Building and Safety shall make such
determination.	(3)	No motor exceed one H.P. shall be used to operate any lathe,
drill press, grinder, shaper, milling machine, saw, polisher or metal cutter;
and	(4)	No punch press exceeding five tons rated capacity nor drop hammer or
automatic screw machine may be used.	3.	Other uses similar to the above, as
provided for in Section 12.21-A,2, of this Code.	4.	(Amended by Ord. No.
162,335, Eff. 6/6/87.) Uses customarily incident to the above uses, and
accessory buildings, when located on the same lot. Open storage of materials and
equipment, including used materials and equipment, shall be permitted only when
incidental to the use of an office, store or manufacturing building located on
the front portion of the same lot, and provided that:	(a)	Such storage is
located on the rear one-half of the lot and is confined to an area of not to
exceed three thousand (3,000) square feet;	(b)	The storage area is completely
enclosed by a solid wall or fence not less than six feet in height with
necessary solid gates of the same height; and	(c)	No material or equipment is
stored to a height greater than that of the wall or fence enclosing the storage
area.	The phrase “used materials and equipment” includes vehicles, boats, or
airplanes which are inoperable, wrecked, damaged or unlicensed, i.e. not
currently licensed by the Department of Motor Vehicles.	5.	Automobile parking
space required for dwellings and for buildings other than dwellings, provided
for in Section 12.21-A,4 of this Code.	B.	Restriction.  (Amended by Ord. No.
173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  For any lot designated as Public,
Quasi-Public, Public/Quasi-Public Use, Other Public, or Open Space on the land
use map of the applicable community or district plan; any lot shown on the map
as having existing lakes, waterways, reservoirs, debris basins, or similar
facilities; any lot shown on the map as the location of a freeway right-of-way;
and any property annexed to the City of Los Angeles where a plan amendment was
not adopted as part of the annexation proceedings:	Any of the uses permitted by
Subsection A of this section shall require prior approval in accordance with the
provisions of Section 12.24.1 of this Code.	C.	Area – No building or structure
nor the enlargement of any building or structure shall be erected or maintained
unless the following yards, lot areas and loading spaces are provided and
maintained in connection with such building, structure or
enlargement.	1.	Yards.  (Amended by Ord. No. 144,365, Eff. 4/5/73, Operative
9/1/73.)  Not required for buildings erected and used exclusively for
commercial or industrial purposes.	For all portions of buildings erected and
used for residential purposes, side yards and rear yards conforming to the
requirements of the R4 Zone (Section 12.11-C,2 and 3) shall be provided and
maintained at the floor level of the first story used for residential
purposes.	2.	Lot Area. The lot area requirements of the “R3” Zone (Section
12.10-C,4) shall apply to all portions of buildings erected and used for
residential purposes.  (Amended by Ord. No. 143,239, Eff. 5/7/72.)	3.	Loading
Spaces. Loading spaces shall be same as required by Subsection C-6 of Section
12.21 of this Code.	Exceptions to area regulations are provided for in Section
12.22-C.
