                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

COASTAL DEVELOPMENT PERMIT PROCEDURES AFTER CERTIFICATION OF THE LOCAL COASTAL
PROGRAM. (§ 12.20.2.1)

  COASTAL DEVELOPMENT PERMIT PROCEDURES AFTER CERTIFICATION OF THE LOCAL
COASTAL PROGRAM.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 175,691, Eff. 1/19/04.)	A.	Requirement of a Coastal
Development Permit.  A Coastal Development Permit issued by the City in
conformance with the provisions of this section is required for all Coastal
Development located within an area of the City covered by a certified local
coastal program, unless the Coastal Development is exempted under Section
12.20.1 C., or the proposed project site lies completely within the Coastal
Commission Permit jurisdiction, or the Coastal Commission previously issued a
Coastal Development Permit for the Coastal Development.  Coastal Development
undertaken pursuant to a Coastal Development Permit shall conform to the plans,
specifications, terms and conditions approved in the Permit.  Amendments to
these procedures are not effective until certified by the Coastal
Commission.	B.	Definitions.  The following definitions shall apply to the
Coastal Zone of the City within areas subject to certified Local Coastal
Programs.  Words and phrases not defined here shall be construed as defined in
Section 12.03 or the California Coastal Commission regulations, if defined
there.	Appealable Area shall mean the area identified in Public Resources Code
Section 30603.  The area that meets this criteria includes, but is not limited
to, the area shown on the “Post-LCP Certification Permit and Appeals
Jurisdiction Map” certified by the Coastal Commission in accordance with the
provisions of California Code of Regulations Title 14 Section 13576 and attached
as an exhibit in each certified coastal specific plan.	Appealable Development
shall mean, in accordance with Public Resources Code Section 30603(a), any
development that constitutes a major public works project or a major energy
facility, or any development located in the Appealable Area. 	Applicant shall
mean the person, partnership, corporation, or other entity or State or local
government agency applying for the Coastal Development Permit.	Approving
Authority shall mean the initial decision-maker and appeal body, including the
Director of Planning, City Engineer, Zoning Administrator, City Planning
Commission, Area Planning Commission, Board of Public Works, City Council or
other applicable decision-making person or body within the City of Los Angeles,
which has the authority to approve a Coastal Development Permit pursuant to this
section or by reason of jurisdiction over other permits and approvals sought in
conjunction with an application for a Coastal Development
Permit. 	Categorically Excluded Development shall mean a development, which is
excluded from the Coastal Development Permit requirements pursuant to a
categorical exclusion order adopted by the Coastal Commission that sets forth
the specific categories of development that qualify for the exclusion within a
specific geographic area, and which establishes that those categories of
development in the specified geographic areas will have no potential for
significant adverse effects, either individually or cumulatively on coastal
resources or on public access to or along the coastline.	Coastal Bluff shall
mean the upper termination of a bluff, cliff, or seacliff.  In cases where the
top edge of the cliff is rounded away from the face of the cliff as a result of
erosional processes related to the presence of the steep cliff face, the bluff
line or edge shall be defined as that point nearest the cliff beyond which the
downward gradient of the surface increases more or less continuously until it
reaches the general gradient of the cliff.  In a case where there is a steplike
feature at the top of the cliff face, the landward edge of the topmost riser
shall be taken to be the cliff edge.  The termini of the bluff line, or edge
along the seaward face of the bluff, shall be defined as a point reached by
bisecting the angle formed by a line coinciding with the general trend of the
bluff line along the inland facing portion of the bluff.  Five hundred feet
shall be the minimum length of bluff line or edge to be used in making these
determinations.	Coastal Development shall mean any of the following on land, in
or under water:  the placement or erection of any solid material or structure;
the discharge or disposal of any dredged material or of any gaseous, liquid,
solid or thermal waste; the grading, removing, dredging, mining or extraction of
any materials; any change in the density or intensity of use of land, including,
but not limited to, subdivisions pursuant to the Subdivision Map Act (commencing
with Government Code Section 66410), and any other division of land, including
lot splits, except where the land division is brought about in connection with
the purchase of the land by a public agency for public recreational use; any
change in the intensity of use of water or of access to the water; construction,
reconstruction, demolition or alteration of the size of any structure, including
any facility of any private, public or municipal utility; and the removal or
harvesting of major vegetation other than for agricultural purposes, kelp
harvesting, and timber operations, which are in accordance with a timber
harvesting plan submitted pursuant to the provisions of the Z’berg-Nejedly
Forest Practice Act of 1973 (commencing with Public Resources Code Section
4511).	Coastal Zone shall mean that land and water area specified on the maps
cited in Section 30103 of the Public Resources Code, extending seaward to the
State’s outer limit of jurisdiction, including all offshore islands, but with
some additional criteria for special areas as specified in Public Resources Code
Sections 30103.5 and 30166.	Disaster shall mean fire, flood, wind, earthquake,
or other natural or man-made disaster.	Emergency shall mean a sudden, unexpected
occurrence demanding immediate action to prevent or mitigate loss or damage to
life, health, property or essential public services.	Environmentally Sensitive
Habitat Area shall mean any officially mapped area in which plant or animal life
or their habitats are either rare or especially valuable because of their
special nature or role in an ecosystem and which could easily be disturbed or
degraded by human activities and developments, and any area identified as a
wetland, an environmentally sensitive habitat or as a Sensitive Coastal Resource
Area, in a certified Local Coastal Program, a certified land use plan or a
certified specific plan.	First Public Road Paralleling the Sea shall mean that
road nearest to the sea, as defined in Public Resources Code Section 30115,
which:	(a)	is lawfully open to uninterrupted public use and is suitable for that
use;	(b)	is publicly maintained;	(c)	is an improved, all-weather road open to
motor vehicle traffic in at least one direction;	(d)	is not subject to any
restrictions on use by the public except when closed due to an Emergency or when
closed temporarily for military purposes; and	(e)	does, in fact, connect with
other public roads, providing a continuous access system, and generally
parallels and follows the shoreline of the sea so as to include all portions of
the sea where the physical features, such as bays, lagoons, estuaries and
wetlands cause the waters of the sea to extend landward from the generally
continuous coastline.	Public Project shall mean any development initiated by the
Department of Public Works or any of its bureaus, any development initiated by
any other department or agency of the City of Los Angeles, and any development
initiated or to be carried out by any other governmental agency that is required
to obtain a local government permit.  Public Project shall not include any
development by any department or agency of the City of Los Angeles or any other
governmental entity that otherwise requires action by or approval of the City
Planning Commission, Area Planning Commission or the Office of Zoning
Administration, or any development by any department or agency of the City of
Los Angeles or any other government entity for which a permit from the
Department of Building and Safety is required.  Public Project shall also not
include any development on tidelands, submerged lands, or on public trust lands,
whether filled or unfilled.	Wetland shall mean lands within the Coastal Zone
which may be covered periodically or permanently with shallow water and include
saltwater marshes, freshwater marshes, open or closed brackish water marshes,
swamps, mudflats and fens. 	C.	Exemptions.  The following types of Coastal
Development are exempt from the requirement to obtain a Coastal Development
Permit in accordance with the provisions of this section:	1.	Improvements to
Existing Structures. 	(a)	Improvements to any existing structure are exempt. 
For purposes of this section, in order to qualify as an improvement, the Coastal
Development shall retain 50% or more of the existing exterior walls of the
building or structure.  In addition, the following shall be considered a part
of an existing structure:	(1)	all fixtures and other structures directly
attached to the existing structure and landscaping on the lot;	(2)	for
single-family residences, in addition to (1) above, structures on the property
normally associated with a single-family residence, such as garages, swimming
pools, fences and storage sheds, but not including guest houses or
self-contained dwelling units, shall also be considered part of that
structure.	(b)	Notwithstanding the exemption provided in Section C.1. above, the
following improvements require a Coastal Development Permit:	(1)	improvements to
any structure on a beach, Wetland, stream or lake, seaward of the mean high tide
line, where the structure or proposed improvement would encroach within 50 feet
of the edge of a Coastal Bluff, stream or in areas of natural vegetation
designated by resolution of the Coastal Commission as a significant natural
habitat, or identified in a certified local coastal plan or specific plan as a
significant natural habitat; or within 100 feet of the edge of a Coastal Bluff
if the structure is a single family dwelling;	(2)	any significant alteration of
land forms, including the removal or placement of vegetation, on a beach,
Wetland or sand dune, or within 100 feet of the edge of a Coastal Bluff or
stream or in areas of natural vegetation designated by resolution of the Coastal
Commission or in a certified specific plan as a significant natural habitat; or
within 50 feet of the edge of a Coastal Bluff if the structure is a single
family dwelling;	(3)	the expansion or construction of water wells or septic
systems;	(4)	improvements to any structure on property located in the Appealable
Area that would result in (i) an increase of ten percent or more of internal
floor area of the existing structure, or (ii) an additional improvement of ten
percent or less where an improvement to the structure has previously been
undertaken pursuant to Public Resources Code Section 30610(b), and/or (iii) an
increase in height by more than ten percent of an existing
structure;	(5)	improvements to any structure on property in the non-appealable
area that would result in an increase of ten percent or more of internal floor
area of the existing structure;	(6)	improvements to any structure in significant
scenic resource areas as designated by the Coastal Commission or in a certified
specific plan that would result in (i) an increase of ten percent or more of
internal floor area of the existing structure, or (ii) an additional improvement
of ten percent or less where an improvement to the structure has previously been
undertaken pursuant to Public Resources Code Section 30610(b), and/or (iii) an
increase in height by more than ten percent of an existing structure;	(7)	in
areas the Coastal Commission has previously declared, by resolution after public
hearing, to have a critically short water supply that must be maintained for the
protection of coastal resources or public recreational use, the construction of
any specific major water-using Coastal Development including, but not limited
to, swimming pools, or the construction or extension of any landscaping
irrigation system;	(8)	any improvement to a structure where the development
permit issued for the original structure by the Coastal Commission indicated
that any future improvements would require a Coastal Development Permit;	(9)	any
improvement to a structure that results in a Change in the Intensity of Use of
the structure; and	(10)	any improvement made pursuant to a conversion of an
existing structure from a multiple unit rental use or visitor-serving commercial
use to a use involving a fee ownership or long-term leasehold, including, but
not limited to, a condominium conversion, stock cooperative conversion or
hotel/motel timesharing conversion.	2.	Repair and Maintenance Activities of
Public Utilities.  Repair and maintenance activities of public utilities as
specified in the repair, maintenance and utility hook-up exclusion adopted by
the Coastal Commission on September 5, 1978.	3.	Other Repair and Maintenance. 
Repair and maintenance activities that do not result in a material addition to
or an enlargement or expansion of the object of those activities, except as
otherwise specified by the Coastal Commission in California Code of Regulations,
Title 14, Section 13252, and any amendments subsequently adopted, except if the
repairs or maintenance involve any of the following:	(a)	Any method of repair or
maintenance of a seawall revetment, bluff retaining wall, breakwater, groin,
culvert, outfall or similar shoreline work that involves:	(1)	repair or
maintenance involving substantial alteration of the foundation of the protective
work including pilings and other surface or subsurface structures;	(2)	the
placement, whether temporary or permanent, of rip-rap, artificial berms of sand
or other beach materials, or any other forms of solid materials, on a beach or
in coastal waters, streams, Wetlands, estuaries and lakes or on a shoreline
protective work except for agricultural dikes within enclosed bays or
estuaries;	(3)	the replacement of 20 percent or more of the materials in an
existing structure with materials of a different kind; or	(4)	the presence,
whether temporary or permanent, of mechanized construction equipment or
construction materials on any sand area or bluff or within 20 feet of coastal
waters or streams.	(b)	Any method of maintenance dredging that involves:	(1)	the
dredging of 100,000 cubic yards or more within a 12 month period;	(2)	the
placement of dredge spoils of any quantity within an Environmentally Sensitive
Habitat Area, on any sand area, within 50 feet of the edge of a Coastal Bluff or
Environmentally Sensitive Habitat Area or within 20 feet of coastal waters or
streams; or	(3)	the removal, sale or disposal of dredge spoils of any quantity
that would be suitable for beach nourishment in an area that the Coastal
Commission has declared by resolution, or has been identified in a certified
Local Coastal Program, to have a critically short sand supply that must be
maintained for protection of structures, coastal access or public recreational
use.	(c)	Any repair or maintenance to facilities or structures or work located
in an Environmentally Sensitive Habitat Area, any sand area, within 50 feet of
the edge of a Coastal Bluff or Environmentally Sensitive Habitat Area or within
20 feet of coastal waters or streams that includes:	(1)	the placement or
removal, whether temporary or permanent, of rip-rap, rocks, sand or other beach
materials or any other forms of solid materials; or	(2)	the presence, whether
temporary or permanent, of mechanized equipment or construction
materials.	(d)	Unless destroyed by Disaster, the replacement of 50 percent or
more of a seawall, revetment, bluff retaining wall, breakwater, groin or similar
protective work under one ownership is not repair and maintenance under  Public
Resources Code Section 30610(d), but instead constitutes a replacement structure
requiring a Coastal Development Permit.	4.	Replacement Structures.  The
replacement of any structure destroyed by a Disaster if the replacement
structure conforms to applicable existing zoning requirements, is for the same
use as the destroyed structure, does not exceed either the floor area, height,
or bulk of the destroyed structure by more than ten percent and is sited in the
same location on the affected property as the destroyed structure.	As used in
this subdivision, “bulk” means total interior cubic volume as measured from
the exterior surface of the structure.	As used in this subdivision,
“structure” includes landscaping and any erosion control structure or device
which is similar to that which existed prior to the occurrence of the
Disaster. 	5.	Categorically Excluded Development.  Any Coastal Development
that has been categorically excluded pursuant to a categorical exclusion
approved by the Coastal Commission.	6.	Geologic Testing.  Geologic testing that
does not require other City permits, does not involve cutting access roads and
does not remove significant vegetation.	7.	Temporary Events.  	(a)	A temporary
event that meets all of the following criteria:	(1)	does not involve a charge
for general public admission or seating; and	(2)	will not restrict public access
or use of roadways, parking areas, or recreational areas; and	(3)	will not
either directly or indirectly impact Environmentally Sensitive Habitat Areas,
rare or endangered species, significant scenic resources, or other coastal
resources, such as water-oriented activities, visitor facilities, marine
resources, biological resources, agricultural lands, and archaeological or
paleontological resources.	(b)	Any temporary event which has previously received
a Coastal Development Permit, will be in the same location, during the same time
period, will be operated in the same manner, and was not the subject of previous
complaints.	D.	General Procedures for Appealable and Non-Appealable Coastal
Development Permits.	1.	Application for a Coastal Development Permit.  An
application for a Coastal Development Permit shall be filed with either the
Department of City Planning or the City Engineer on a form provided by the
Department and include all information required by the instructions on the
application and any applicable adopted guidelines.	2.	Jurisdiction.	(a)	An
application for a Coastal Development Permit for a Public Project, or for a
private project where the approval of the underlying permit is within the
jurisdiction of the City Engineer, shall be filed in the office of the City
Engineer. 	(b)	All other applications for Coastal Development Permits shall be
filed in a public office of the Department of City Planning.	3.	Preliminary
Notice of Jurisdiction.	(a)	At the time an application for Coastal Development
is submitted, the Director of Planning (Director) or City Engineer, whichever
has jurisdiction, shall determine whether:	(1)	the development is within the
Coastal Commission’s jurisdiction or the City’s jurisdiction; and	(2)	the
development is located within the appealable or non-appealable jurisdiction of
the Coastal Zone; and		(3)	the development is within an area designated by a
certified Local Coastal Program or within the area subject to the provisions of
Section 12.20.1 of this Code; and 	(4)	the development is exempt or
categorically excluded according to the criteria of Subsection C. of this
section.	 (b)	The Director or City Engineer shall use the following criteria: 
the certified Local Coastal Program, including any maps, the Post LCP
Certification Permit and Appeals Jurisdiction Map certified by the California
Coastal Commission, land use designations, special programs and zoning
ordinances that are certified as part of the Local Coastal Program and
categorical exclusion orders granted by the Coastal Commission.	(c)	If the
preliminary notice of jurisdiction of the Director or City Engineer is
challenged by the Applicant or an interested person within 15 days after the
determination is made, the Director or City Engineer may request an opinion of
the Coastal Commission Executive Director.  The decision of the Executive
Director or the Coastal Commission pursuant to California Code of Regulations,
Title 14, Section 13569 shall apply. 	4.	Notice of Exemption.	(a)	After
jurisdiction has been established and the Director or City Engineer has
determined that the Coastal Development is exempt pursuant to Subsection C. of
this section, the Director or the City Engineer, whichever has jurisdiction,
shall issue a notice of exemption for a Coastal Development which is exempt from
the Coastal Development Permit requirements.  The Director or City Engineer
shall mail a copy of the notice of exemption to the Applicant and the Coastal
Commission.	(b)	The City shall maintain a record of all notices issued for
exempt Coastal Developments, including Categorically Excluded Developments,
which shall be made available to the Coastal Commission or any interested person
upon request.  This record may be in the form of a list of issued permits or
approvals currently maintained by the City, provided that the record includes
the Applicant’s name, the location of the Coastal Development, and a brief
description of the Coastal Development.	5.	Deeming an Application
Complete.	(a)	Within 30 days of the submittal of the application and the payment
of fees, the Director or City Engineer, whichever has jurisdiction, shall
determine whether the application is complete.	(b)	Prior to deeming an
application complete, the Director or City Engineer shall determine, and if
necessary, advise the Applicant, of the processes to be followed, any additional
information required, and the fees to be paid.  The Director or City Engineer
shall adopt guidelines and use them to determine when an application is deemed
complete.  	6.	Concurrent Processing With Other Permits or Approvals.
 	(a)	When a proposed Coastal Development is required to obtain a Coastal
Development Permit and is also required to obtain other quasi-judicial or
legislative approvals, the application for a Coastal Development Permit shall be
filed and processed concurrently with the other permits or approvals.  The
action of the Approving Authority shall be considered one consolidated
action.	(b)	An appeal of the initial decision on a Coastal Development Permit
application shall automatically constitute an appeal of the decision on the
application for the other discretionary permits and approvals.  Any appeal of
the other permits and approvals shall also constitute an appeal of the Coastal
Development Permit unless the appeal of the Coastal Development Permit would
violate Charter Section 563.  The time for appeal of the Coastal Development
Permit to the Coastal Commission shall commence after action on the other 
permits and approvals becomes final. 	(c)	If a condition of the Coastal
Development Permit varies from a condition contained in the other permits and
approvals, the more restrictive condition shall control.	(d)	No additional fees
shall be charged for appeal of a Coastal Development Permit that is combined
with an appeal for the other permits and approvals. 	7.	Time Limit for Initial
Decision.	(a)	The initial Approving Authority shall make a written decision
approving, disapproving or approving with conditions a Coastal Development
Permit within 75 days after:	(1)	the date the application is deemed complete;
or	(2)	when an environmental impact report (EIR) is required, the date the EIR
is certified as complete consistent with State law.	(b)	The time limit may be
extended by mutual consent of the Director and the
Applicant. 	E.	Notice.	1.	Notice of Coastal Development Permit Application. 
The City, at the Applicant’s expense, shall provide a Notice of Coastal
Development Permit Application by first class mail at least ten calendar days
prior to the initial decision.  This notice shall be provided to each
Applicant, to the Certified Neighborhood Council, to all persons who have
requested to be on the mailing list for the particular Coastal Development or
for all coastal decisions within the Coastal Zone, to all property owners and
residents within 100 feet of the perimeter of the parcel on which the Coastal
Development is proposed, exclusive of streets, and to the Coastal Commission. 
The notice shall contain the following information:	(a)	a statement that the
Coastal Development is within the Coastal Zone;	(b)	the date of filing of the
application and the name of the Applicant;	(c)	the case number assigned to the
application;	(d)	a description of the Coastal Development and its proposed
location;	2.	Notice of Waiver of Public Hearing.  	(a)	For Coastal Development
in the Appealable Area where the requirement for a public hearing is proposed to
be waived, the City shall provide the following statement in the manner provided
in Subdivision 1. above:  “the public hearing will be waived unless a hearing
is requested by any person within ten working days of the date of this notice. 
The failure to request a public hearing may result in the loss of that
person’s ability to appeal to the Coastal Commission the City’s action on
the Coastal Development Permit.”	(b)	For a Coastal Development that does not
require a public hearing pursuant to this section, the notice shall contain the
date the application will be acted upon by the Approving Authority and the
general procedure for submitting public comments in writing to the Approving
Authority prior to the decision date.	3.	Notice of Public Hearing.  For a
Coastal Development that requires a public hearing pursuant to this section, the
City, at the Applicant’s expense, shall provide a Notice of Public Hearing by
first class mail at least ten calendar days prior to the first public hearing. 
This Notice may be combined with the Notice of Coastal Development Permit
Application for applications that require a Public Hearing. 	This notice shall
be provided to each Applicant, to all persons who have requested to be on the
mailing list for the particular Coastal Development or for all coastal decisions
within the Coastal Zone, to all property owners and residents within 100 feet of
the perimeter of the parcel on which the Coastal Development is proposed,
exclusive of streets, and to the Coastal Commission.  The notice shall contain
the following information:	(a)	a statement that the Coastal Development is
within the Coastal Zone;	(b)	the date of filing of the application and the name
of the Applicant;	(c)	the case number assigned to the application;	(d)	a
description of the Coastal Development and its proposed location;	(e)	the date,
time, and place at which the public hearing on the application will be
heard;	(f)	a brief description of the general procedure concerning the conduct
of the public hearing and City actions;	(g)	the procedure for City and Coastal
Commission appeals, if any, including any required fees;	(h)	If applicable, the
criteria for eligibility to appeal to the Coastal Commission; and	(i)	a
statement that an interested person must request to be on the mailing list for
the particular Coastal Development in order to receive notice of the written
determination and in order to appeal to the City.	4.	Continuation of Public
Hearing – Notice.  If a decision on a Coastal Development Permit is continued
to a time which is neither (a) previously stated in the notice of public hearing
provided pursuant to this subsection, nor (b) announced at the hearing as being
continued to a time certain, notice of the further hearings or action on the
proposed Coastal Development shall be provided in the same manner, and within
the same time limits, as established in this subsection.	5.	Posted Notice.  At
the time the application is submitted for filing, the Applicant must post, in a
conspicuous place, and as close as possible to the proposed Coastal Development,
the City’s notice that an application has been filed for a Coastal Development
Permit.  The notice shall contain specific information as to the nature of the
proposed Coastal Development and be in a form as required by the approving
department for that purpose.	F.	Decision Process for Coastal Development
Permits.	1.	Public Hearing.  The Approving Authority shall hold a public
hearing on any application for a Coastal Development Permit for an Appealable
Development except as waived in Subdivision 2.  It shall hold the hearing at
least ten calendar days following the mailing of the notice required in Section
E.2. and shall consolidate the hearing with any other public hearing required
for any other approvals required by the Los Angeles Municipal Code or other City
ordinance.	2.	Waiver of Public Hearing.  The Approving Authority may waive the
public hearing for Coastal Development in the non-appealable area and may
propose to waive the requirement for a public hearing for Coastal Development in
the Appealable Area if it determines that the Coastal Development meets the
following criteria:	(a)	The Coastal Development is consistent with the Certified
Local Coastal Program;	(b)	The Coastal Development requires no discretionary
approvals other than a Coastal Development Permit; and	(c)	The Coastal
Development has no adverse effect either individually or cumulatively on coastal
resources or public access to the shoreline or along the coast.	3.	Initial
Decision.  If an application for a Coastal Development Permit is submitted to
the City and there is no application for another quasi-judicial or legislative
approval, the initial decision shall be made by the Director or City Engineer,
whichever has jurisdiction.  The Director or City Engineer may approve,
conditionally approve or deny a Coastal Development Permit.	4.	Findings.	(a)	An
application for a Coastal Development Permit shall be approved if the Approving
Authority, based on information obtained during an investigation and/or public
hearing, if applicable, makes specific written findings justifying the City’s
action, including any conditions imposed in order to bring the Coastal
Development into conformity with the certified Local Coastal Program.  These
findings shall include the following:	(1)	that the proposed Coastal Development
is in conformity with the certified Local Coastal Program;	(2)	that the Coastal
Development is in conformity with all applicable provisions of any adopted
community plan and specific plan for the area; and	(3)	where applicable, that
any Coastal Development located between the First Public Road Paralleling the
Sea and the sea or shoreline of any body of water located within the Coastal
Zone is in conformity with the public access and public recreation policies of
Chapter 3 of Division 20 of the California Public Resources Code. 	(b)	The
Approving Authority, in approving an application for a Coastal Development
Permit, shall impose any conditions considered necessary to insure that the
proposed use will be consistent with the above findings.
	
	(c)	An application for a Coastal Development Permit shall be denied when the
evidence submitted by the Applicant and/or presented at a public hearing fails
to support the findings above to the satisfaction of the Approving Authority.
	
	5.	Transmittal of Written Decision.  Upon making a written decision, the
Approving Authority shall transmit a copy by first class mail to each Applicant,
to all persons who have requested to be on the mailing list for the particular
Coastal Development or for all coastal decisions within the Coastal Zone, to all
property owners and residents within 100 feet of the perimeter of the parcel on
which the Coastal Development is proposed, exclusive of streets, and to the
Coastal Commission.   	G.	Effective Date of City Action.  The City shall
issue a Coastal Development Permit only:	1.	For a non-appealable development,
fifteen days after the final City action, provided no appeal has been filed, or
provided the Coastal Commission has not asserted jurisdiction.
		
	2.	For an Appealable Development, only after receiving the final City action
and notification that the ten working day appeal period to the Coastal
Commission established by California Code of Regulations has ended and no appeal
was filed; or an appeal was filed and the Coastal Commission made a
determination of no substantial issue with the City’s decision.	3.	If a
decision on a Coastal Development Permit is appealed to the Coastal Commission
and the Coastal Commission determines that a substantial issue exists, the
issuance of the permit will be regulated by the Coastal
Commission.	H.	Procedures for Appeals of a Coastal Development Permit.	1.	Filing
of an Appeal.  	(a)	An Applicant or any other person aggrieved by the initial
decision on a Coastal Development Permit may appeal the decision to the Area
Planning Commission or to the Board of Public Works for a Public Project or for
a private project where the approval of the underlying permit is within the
jurisdiction of the City Engineer.  The appeal on an Appealable Development and
non-appealable development shall be filed within 15 days of the date of mailing
of the decision.	(b)	The appeal shall set forth specifically the points at
issue, the reasons for the appeal, and the basis upon which the appellant claims
there was an error or abuse of discretion by the decision-maker.  Any appeal
not filed within the 15-day filing period shall not be considered by the Area
Planning Commission or Board of Public Works.  The filing of an appeal stays
proceedings in the matter until the Commission or Board has made a decision. 
Once an appeal is filed, the initial decision-maker shall transmit the appeal
and the file to the Commission or Board,  together with any reports responding
to the allegations made in the appeal.	2.	Notice of Appellate Decision.  Before
acting on any appeal of a Coastal Development Permit, the Area Planning
Commission or Board of Public Works shall set the matter for hearing, with
written notice of the hearing sent at least 15 days prior to the meeting to each
Applicant, the appellant(s), all persons who have requested to be on the mailing
list for the particular Coastal Development or for all coastal decisions within
the Coastal Zone, to all property owners and residents within 100 feet of the
parcel on which the Coastal Development is proposed, exclusive of streets, and
the Coastal Commission. 	3.	Time for Appellate Decision.  The Area Planning
Commission or Board of Public Works shall act within 75 days after the
expiration of the appeal period or within any additional period mutually agreed
upon by the Applicant and the Commission or Board.	4.	Appellate Decision.  The
Area Planning Commission or Board of Public Works may reverse or modify the
initial decision, in whole or in part.  In reversing or modifying the initial
decision, the Commission or Board shall make the same findings required to be
made by the initial decision-maker and shall indicate why the initial
decision-maker erred or abused its discretion.	I.	Recordation of the Coastal
Development Permit.  Within 14 days of the issuance of the Coastal Development
Permit for a Coastal Development subject to the jurisdiction of the Director,
the Applicant shall record the Permit with the Los Angeles County Recorder’s
Office and provide a certified copy to the City Planning Department.	J.	Notice
of Final City Action.  Within seven calendar days of a final decision on an
application for any Coastal Development, the Approving Authority shall provide
notice of its action, at the expense of the Applicant, by first class mail to
the Coastal Commission and to any persons who specifically requested notice of
the final action by submitting a self-addressed, stamped envelope to the
Approving Authority.  The notice shall include conditions of approval, written
findings, and, if applicable, the procedures for appeal to the Coastal
Commission.	K.	Notification of Failure to Act and Approval by Operation of
Law.	1.	Notification by Applicant.  If the Approving Authority has failed to
act on an application within the time limits set forth in Government Code
Sections 65950-65957.1, the person claiming a right to proceed pursuant to those
Code sections shall notify, in writing, the Approving Authority and the Coastal
Commission and all persons entitled to receive notice pursuant to Subdivision 2.
of Subsection H. of this section that the Coastal Development has been approved
by operation of law.  The notice shall specify the application which is claimed
to have been approved.	2.	Notification by Approving Authority.  When the
Approving Authority determines that the time limits established pursuant to
Government Code Sections 65950- 65957.1 have expired, and that the notice
required pursuant to Subdivision 2. of Subsection H. of this section has
occurred, the Approving Authority shall, within seven calendar days of its
determination, notify any person entitled to receive notice pursuant to
Subdivision 2. of Subsection H. of this section that it has taken final action
by operation of law pursuant to Government Code Sections 65950-65957.1, and that
the application, if it is for an Appealable Development, may be appealed to the
Coastal Commission pursuant to California Code of Regulations, Title 14, Section
13110, et seq.	L.	Appeal Procedures for Multiple Applications Including a
Coastal Development Permit.  The Approving Authority for multiple applications
for a Coastal Development Permit and other quasi-judicial or legislative
approvals shall be as established in Section 12.36 A. through E.  However, the
appeal procedures for the consolidated action shall follow the procedural
requirements for notice, public hearing and final action of an initial decision
on a Coastal Development Permit in accordance with Subsections D., E. and F. of
this section. 	M.	Duration of Permits. 	1.	Validity.  A Coastal Development
Permit that was granted pursuant to the provisions of this section shall run
with the land and continue to be valid upon any changes of ownership of the land
or any changes to the existing building or structure on the
land.	2.	Termination.  A permit which has not been used within the time
specified in  the permit, or, if no time is specified, within two years after
the granting of the permit, shall become void.  The Director or City Engineer,
whichever has jurisdiction, may grant extensions of time for the utilization of
the permit, provided the extension is requested prior to the expiration date,
under the provisions of Subsection O. of this section.  In cases where other
approvals are granted concurrently with the Coastal Development Permit, the time
limits and extensions shall be the same as those for the other approvals. 
However, the Coastal Development Permit shall become void after six
years.	3.	Utilization of Permit.  A Coastal Development Permit shall be
considered used when construction or other development authorized by that
permit, which would be prohibited in that location if no Coastal Development
Permit had been issued, has commenced.  A Coastal Development Permit shall
automatically cease to be in effect if the use for which the permit was granted
has ceased or has been suspended for a consecutive period of two or more
years. 	N.	Revocation.	1.	Failure to Comply with Conditions.  If the Director
or City Engineer, whichever has jurisdiction, determines that the conditions of
any Coastal Development Permit granted pursuant to this section have not been
complied with, the Director or City Engineer may give notice to the record owner
or lessee of the real property to appear at a time and place fixed by the
Director or City Engineer and show cause why the determination of the Approving
Authority granting the Coastal Development Permit should not be rescinded.  An
appeal from a revocation action may be taken in the same manner prescribed in
Subsection H. of this section. 	2.	Request by Aggrieved Person.  Any aggrieved
person may request revocation of a permit by application to the Director or City
Engineer, whichever has jurisdiction, specifying with particularity the grounds
for revocation.  The Director or City Engineer shall review the stated grounds
for revocation and shall determine whether to initiate revocation proceedings. 
An appeal from a revocation action may be taken in the same manner prescribed in
Subsection H of this section.	O.	Extensions of Time.	1.	Application.  Prior to
the expiration of a Coastal Development Permit, an Applicant may apply for a one
year extension of the permit.  Prior to the expiration of any extension, the
Applicant may apply for another one year extension of the permit.  An
application for an extension of time shall automatically keep the permit in
effect until the Approving Authority has acted upon the request.  However, if
construction has not commenced at the time the application is made, construction
may not commence after the initial expiration date until the Approving Authority
has acted upon the request.  The application shall state the reasons for the
request and shall be accompanied by evidence of a valid, unexpired permit and of
the Applicant’s continued property interest.	2.	Procedures.  The procedures
for applying for an extension of time shall be in accordance with Subsections
D.,  E., and F. of this section.  	3.	Findings.  The Approving Authority
shall only grant an extension if the Approving Authority can make the same
findings as were required for the original permit, with no new conditions, and
must make an additional finding that there are no changed circumstances which
would affect the Coastal Development’s consistency with the Local Coastal
Program.  	4.	Appeal.  An extension of time for a Coastal Development Permit
may be appealed in accordance with Subsection H. of this section.  However, in
addition to the notice provisions required in that subsection, the Approving
Authority shall also notify any persons who objected to the Approving
Authority’s approval of an extension. 	P.	Immaterial Changes to a Coastal
Development Permit.  	1.	Application.  An application for an immaterial change
to a Coastal Development Permit shall be filed with the Approving Authority that
approved the existing permit.	2.	Approval.  If the Approving Authority finds
that the proposed change conforms to the original findings and conditions
required for the Coastal Development Permit and is in substantial conformance
with that Permit, then the Approving Authority may approve the proposed
change. 	Q.	Permit Amendments.	1.	Application.  If the Approving Authority
that originally granted the Coastal Development Permit finds that a proposed
change is not in substantial conformance with the original Coastal Development
Permit, the holder of the Permit may apply for an amendment to the Permit in the
same manner as an application for a new Coastal Development Permit.  This
application shall contain a description of the proposed amendment, the reason
for the amendment, together with maps, plans or other material appropriate to
the request, and shall be accompanied by evidence of a valid, unexpired permit
and of the Applicant’s continued legal ownership or interest in the
property. 	2.	Procedures.  The procedures for an amendment shall be the same
as would be required of a new application at the same location in accordance
with Sections D., E. and F. of this section.	3.	Appeals.  Appeals of decisions
on amendment applications may be made in the same manner as appeals of decisions
on the original Coastal Development Permit in Subsection H. above.	R.	Emergency
Permits.  An Emergency permit shall only be issued in cases where an Emergency
necessitates immediate action that would normally require a Coastal Development
Permit, and where the worth of any permanent structures erected does not exceed
$25,000. 	1.	Applications.  An application for an Emergency Coastal
Development Permit shall be made to the Director or the City Engineer, whichever
has jurisdiction, within three days of the Emergency or discovery of the
danger.  The following information shall be included in the request:	(a)	nature
of the Emergency;	(b)	cause of the Emergency, if this can be
determined;	(c)	location of the Emergency; 	(d)	the remedial, protective or
preventive work required to deal with the Emergency; and	(e)	the circumstances
during the Emergency that justify the proposed course of action, including the
probable consequences of failing to take action.	2.	Verification of Emergency. 
The Director or City Engineer shall verify the facts, including the existence
and the nature of the Emergency, insofar as time  permits.	3.	Procedure.  The
Director or City Engineer shall provide public notice of the Emergency work,
with the extent and type of notice determined on the basis of the nature of the
Emergency.  The Director or City Engineer shall not issue an Emergency permit
for any work that falls within the provisions of Public Resources Code Sections
30519(b) and 30601.  The Director or City Engineer may grant an Emergency
permit upon reasonable terms and conditions, if the Director or City Engineer
finds that:	(a)	an Emergency exists that requires action more quickly than the
regular permit process would allow, and the work can or will be completed within
30 days, unless otherwise specified by the terms of the permit;	(b)	public
comment on the proposed Emergency action has been reviewed, if time allows;
and	(c)	the work proposed would be consistent with the certified Local Coastal
Program and any adopted, relevant community or specific plans.	4.	Compliance. 
An Emergency permit shall be valid for not more than 60 days from the date of
issuance.  Prior to expiration of the Emergency permit, the permittee must
submit a Coastal Development Permit application for the Coastal Development or
else remove the Coastal Development undertaken pursuant to the Emergency permit
in its entirety and restore the site to its previous condition. Failure to
comply with the provisions of this subsection or failure by the permittee to
properly notice and report any Emergency actions may result in the revocation of
the Emergency permit.	5.	Reporting.  The Director or City Engineer shall notify
the Coastal Commission of the issuance of an Emergency permit by phone or letter
as soon as possible, but in any event within three days of the issuance of the
Emergency permit.
