                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

HEIGHT OF BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES IN CENTURY CITY. (§ 12.21.2)

  HEIGHT OF BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES IN CENTURY CITY.
	(Added by Ord. No. 160,657, Eff. 2/17/86, Oper. 6/17/86.)	Within the boundaries
of the Century City North and Century City South Specific Plans (Ordinance No.
156,122 and 156,121 respectively), the following definitions and regulations
shall apply:	A.	Definitions.	1.	Building, Height of—The vertical distance
between the highest point of the adjacent ground elevation and the ceiling of
the top story of the building.	2.	Grade (Adjacent Ground Elevation) – The
lowest point of elevation of the finished surface of the ground between the
exterior wall of a building and a point five feet distant from said wall, or the
lowest point of elevation of the finished surface of the ground between the
exterior wall of the building and the property line if it is less than five feet
distant from said wall. In case walls are parallel to and within five feet of a
public sidewalk, alley or other public way, the grade shall be the elevation of
the sidewalk, alley or public way.	B.	Height of buildings or structures.	1.	No
building shall be erected, enlarged or maintained which exceeds either the total
floor area, the number of stories or the height limits hereinafter specified for
the district in which the building or structure is located.	2.	The total floor
area contained in all the main buildings on a lot in Height District No. 1 shall
not exceed three times the buildable area of said lot. Portions of Height
District No. 1 may be designated as being in an “L” Limited Height District
and no building or structure in Height District No. 1-L shall exceed six stories
nor shall it exceed 75 feet in height.  Portions of Height District No. 1 may
be designated as being in a “VL” Very Limited Height District and no
building or structure in Height District No. 1-VL shall exceed three stories nor
shall it exceed 45 feet in height.  Notwithstanding that limitation, portions
of Height District No. 1-VL that are also in the RAS3 or RAS4 zones shall not
exceed 50 feet in height.  (Amended by Ord. No. 174,999, Eff. 1/15/03.)	3.	The
total floor area contained in all the main building on a lot in Height District
No. 2 shall not exceed six times the buildable area of said lot.	4.	In computing
the total floor area within a building, the gross area confined within the
exterior walls within a building, except for the space devoted to stairways,
elevator shafts, light courts, and rooms housing mechanical equipment incidental
to the operation of buildings, shall be considered as the floor area of that
floor of the building.	5.	Whenever any unusual situation or design of building
exists so that it is difficult to determine the precise application of those
provisions, the Department of Building and Safety shall make such determinations
in a manner to carry out the indicated purpose and intent thereof.	6.	In any
zone or height district where buildings are limited to a specific height or
number of stories, no portion of any roof shall exceed the permitted building
height by more than 14 feet	7.	In determining the number of stories, any
basement containing habitable rooms shall be considered a story.	8.	Additional
limitations may be required  as set forth in Section 12.32K of this
Code.	C.	Exceptions	1.	In Height District No. 1, motion picture studio stages,
scenes or skybackings, temporary towers and the like may be erected to a height
of 125 feet if said buildings and structures observe front, side, and rear yards
of one foot for each four feet such building or structure exceeds three stories
or 45 feet in height. Said yards shall be in addition to any other yards or
setbacks required by other provisions of this article.	2.	Buildings or
structures erected on sloping ground may exceed the height in number of feet,
prescribed in this subsection, insofar as such additional height may be required
to overcome differences in adjoining sidewalk or ground elevations, but no
building or structure shall exceed the specified height limit for the district
in which it is located, measured from the highest point of the adjoining
sidewalk or ground level, nor shall any such building or structure exceed the
specified height limit by more than 15 feet from any other point of the
adjoining sidewalk or ground level. No such building shall have more stories
than hereinabove provided.	3.	Penthouses or roof structures for the housing of
elevators, stair ways, tanks, ventilating fans or similar equipment required to
operate and maintain the building, or fire or parapet walls, skylights, towers,
steeples, flagpoles, chimneys, smokestacks, wireless masts, water tanks, silos
or similar structures, may be erected above the height limit specified in the
district in which the property is located, but no such penthouse or roof
structure, or any other space above said height limit shall be allowed for the
purpose of providing additional floor space. In all zones, except the “A”,
“R”, “CR”, “C1”, and “C1.5”, a roof sign may also be erected
above the specified height limit.	4.	In all height districts parking floor space
with necessary interior driveways and ramps thereto, space within a roof
structure or penthouse for the housing of building operating equipment or
machinery, space provided for the landing and storage of helicopters and
basement storage space shall not be considered in determining the total floor
area within a building.
