                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ADJUSTMENTS AND SLIGHT MODIFICATIONS. (§ 12.28)

  ADJUSTMENTS AND SLIGHT MODIFICATIONS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)	A.	Adjustments. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 181,624, Eff. 5/9/11.)  The Zoning Administrator shall
have the authority to grant adjustments in the Yard, area, Building line and
height requirements of Chapter 1 of this Code.  An adjustment shall not be
permitted for relief from a density (Lot area per unit) or height requirement,
excluding fences and hedges, if the request represents an increase of 20 percent
or more than what is otherwise permitted by this Code.  A request for an
increase of 20 percent or more shall be made as an application for a variance
pursuant to Section 12.27 of this Code, except as may be permitted by other
provisions of Chapter 1 of this Code.	The Zoning Administrator shall also have
the authority to grant adjustments in Residential Floor Area of no more than a
ten percent increase beyond what is otherwise permitted by Chapter 1 of this
Code.  A request for an increase in Residential Floor Area greater than ten
percent shall be made as an application for a variance pursuant to Section 12.27
of this Code, except as may be permitted by other provisions of Chapter 1 of
this Code.	B.	Slight Modifications – Authority of Zoning Administrator.  The
Zoning Administrator shall have the authority to grant slight modifications in
the yard and area requirements of Chapter 1 of this Code where circumstances
make the literal application of the yard and area requirements impractical. 
Slight Modifications from the yard and area requirements shall be limited
to:	1.	deviations permitting portions of buildings to extend into a required
yard or other open space a distance of no more than 20 percent of the width or
depth of the required yard or open space only when the request is filed
incidental to another application or appeal within the jurisdiction of the
Zoning Administrator; and	2.	deviations of no more than ten percent from the
required lot area regulations.  In those cases, the procedures for notice,
hearing, time limits and appeals shall be the same as those applicable to the
underlying application or appeal.  In granting a slight modification, a Zoning
Administrator may impose conditions related to the interests addressed in the
findings set forth in Subdivision 4. of Subsection C. below.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 182,095, Eff. 5/7/11.)	C.	Procedures for Slight Modifications and
Adjustments.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  The initial
decision-maker for adjustments or slight modifications shall be the Zoning
Administrator and the appellate body shall be the Area Planning Commission. 
Procedures for slight modifications and adjustments shall be as set forth in
Section 12.24B through J, except as otherwise provided here.	1.	Applications for
a Slight Modification or Adjustment.  An application for an adjustment or a
slight modification shall be filed pursuant to this section, upon forms provided
by the Department of City Planning and accompanied by applicable fees.  Each
application shall be verified by the owner or lessee of the property involved. 
In the case of a slight modification of the area requirements, the verification
of the application may be waived.	2.	Public Hearing and Notice.  The following
are exceptions to the public hearing and notice requirements in Section
12.24.	(a)	An application for an adjustment shall be set for public hearing
unless the Zoning Administrator makes written findings in the record that the
requested adjustment:	(1)	will not have a significant effect on adjoining
properties or on the immediate neighborhood; or	(2)	is not likely to evoke
public controversy.	(b)	The Zoning Administrator may set an application for an
adjustment or slight modification for public hearing, even though a public
hearing is not otherwise required, if the Zoning Administrator determines that
it would be in the public interest.  In that event, written notices of the
public hearing shall be mailed to the owners of all properties abutting, across
the street or alley from or having a common corner with the subject property. 
When a public hearing is scheduled pursuant to this section, written notices
shall be mailed at least 24 days prior to the date of the hearing.  The last
known names and addresses of the owners as shown on the records of the City
Engineer or the records of the County Assessor.  Notice of the public hearing
shall be posted, by the applicant in a conspicuous place on the property
involved at least ten days prior to the date of the public hearing.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 181,595, Eff. 4/10/11.)	(c)	An application for an adjustment to
permit a game court, including a tennis or paddle tennis court, accessory to a
primary residential use on the same lot, or to permit the erection of light
standards in conjunction with that use shall be set for public hearing and
notice shall be given in the same manner required for adjustments unless the
applicant has secured the approval of the owners of all properties abutting,
across the street or alley from or having a common corner with the subject
property.	(d)	For R1, RS, RE, and RA Zoned properties in the Hillside Area, as
defined in Section 12.03 of this Article, the Zoning Administrator must conduct
a public hearing for any Adjustment or Slight Modification requests.  (Added by
Ord. No. 181,624, Eff. 5/9/11.)	3.	Initial Decision by Zoning Administrator. 
Decisions by a Zoning Administrator shall be supported by written findings of
fact based upon written or oral statements and documents presented to him or her
which may include photographs, maps, and plans, together with the result of his
or her investigations.  Upon making a determination pursuant to an application
for an adjustment or slight modification, the Zoning Administrator shall place a
copy of the determination and any written findings in the file and furnish a
copy to the Department of Building and Safety.  Furthermore, with respect to
adjustments, whether or not set for public hearing and with respect to slight
modifications which have been set for public hearing, a copy of the
determination shall be mailed to the applicant, and to the owners of all
properties abutting, across the street or alley from, or having a common corner
with the subject property and to all persons who have filed written requests for
notice with the Office of Zoning Administration.	With respect to slight
modifications which have not been set for public hearing, a copy of the
determination shall be mailed to the applicant, to the owner of the subject
property if other than the applicant, and to all persons who have filed written
requests for notice with the Office of Zoning Administration.	4.	Findings for
Approval of Adjustments.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,095, Eff. 5/7/12.)  The
Zoning Administrator shall not grant an application for an adjustment unless he
or she finds:	(a)	that while site characteristics or existing improvements make
strict adherence to the zoning regulations impractical or infeasible, the
project nonetheless conforms with the intent of those regulations;	(b)	that in
light of the project as a whole, including any mitigation measures imposed, the
project’s location, size, height, operations and other significant features
will be compatible with and will not adversely affect or further degrade
adjacent properties, the surrounding neighborhood, or the public health,
welfare, and safety; and	(c)	that the project is in substantial conformance with
the purpose, intent and provisions of the General Plan, the applicable community
plan and any applicable specific plan.	5.	Conditions for Approval.  In
approving an adjustment or slight modification, the Zoning Administrator may
impose those conditions he or she deems necessary to remedy a disparity of
privileges and that are necessary to protect the public health, safety or
welfare and assure compliance with the objectives of the General Plan and the
purpose and intent of the zoning.	D.	Discontinuance of Adjustment –
Revocation.  (Added by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  The revocation
procedures that apply to variances in Section 12.27S shall also apply to
adjustments.	E.	Adjustment – Plan Approvals.  (Added by Ord. No. 173,492,
Eff. 10/10/00.)  The plan approval procedures that apply to variances in
Section 12.27U shall also apply to adjustments.
