                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ADMINISTRATIVE NUISANCE ABATEMENT PROCEEDINGS. (§ 12.27.1)

  ADMINISTRATIVE NUISANCE ABATEMENT PROCEEDINGS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 180,409, Eff. 1/18/09.)	A.	Purpose.  It is the intent of
this section to consolidate a number of existing code provisions relating to the
administrative abatement of public nuisances, and revocations, rescissions,
discontinuances or modifications of discretionary zoning approvals.  In
addition, this section also sets forth procedures allowing the Director to
modify or remove conditions imposed as a result of nuisance abatement
proceedings; to enforce conditions imposed as part of any discretionary zoning
approval; and to require that the cost of a proceeding instituted pursuant to
this section be paid by those responsible for the maintenance and operation of
the subject use.	These provisions allow the City’s zoning authorities to
protect the public peace, health and safety from any land use which becomes a
nuisance; adversely affects the health, peace or safety of persons residing or
working in the surrounding area; or violates any land use related condition
imposed pursuant to this chapter or other provision of law, while protecting the
constitutional rights of the parties involved.	B.	Authority.  Notwithstanding
any other provision of this Code to the contrary, the Director may require the
modification, discontinuance or revocation of any land use or discretionary
zoning approval if it is found that the land use or discretionary zoning
approval as operated or maintained:	1.	Jeopardizes or adversely affects the
public health, peace, or safety of persons residing or working on the premises
or in the surrounding area; or	2.	Constitutes a public nuisance; or	3.	Has
resulted in repeated nuisance activities, including, but not limited to,
disturbances of the peace, illegal drug activity, public drunkenness, drinking
in public, harassment of passersby, gambling, prostitution, sale of stolen
goods, public urination, theft, assaults, batteries, acts of vandalism,
loitering, excessive littering, illegal parking, excessive loud noises
(especially in the late night or early morning hours), traffic violations,
curfew violations, lewd conduct, or police detentions and arrests;
or	4.	Adversely impacts nearby uses; or	5.	Violates any provision of this
chapter; or any other city, state, or federal regulation, ordinance, or statute;
or	6.	Violates any condition imposed by a prior discretionary land use approval
including approvals granted pursuant to Sections 12.24, 12.27, 12.28, 12.32 or
14.00 of this Code; or an approval initiated by application of a property owner
or owner’s representative related to the use of land including, but not
limited to, parcel map, tentative tract map, coastal development permit,
development agreement, density transfer plan, exception from a specific plan,
and project permit pursuant to a moratorium or an interim control
ordinance.	C.	Procedures:  Notice, Hearings and Appeals.  The Director shall
give notice to the record owner and lessee(s) of the real property affected to
appear at a public hearing at a time and place fixed by the Director and show
cause why the land use or discretionary zoning approval should not be modified,
discontinued, or revoked.	1.	Notice.  A written notice shall be mailed not less
than 24 calendar days prior to the date of hearing to the owner and lessee(s) of
the property involved, and to the owners of all property within and outside of
the City that is within 500 feet of the exterior boundaries of the property
involved, using for the purpose of notification the last known name and address
of the owners, as shown in the City Clerk’s records or in the records of the
County Assessor.  If all property within the 500-foot radius is under the same
ownership as the property involved in the proceeding, then the owners of all
property which adjoins that ownership shall be included in this notification. 
Written notice shall also be mailed to residential, commercial and industrial
occupants of the property involved, and all property within 500 feet of the
exterior boundaries of the property involved.  This requirement can be met by
mailing the notice to “occupant”.  If this notice provision will not result
in notice being given to at least 20 different owners of at least 20 different
lots other than the subject property, then the 500-foot radius for notification
shall be increased in increments of 50 feet until the required number of persons
and lots are encompassed within the expanded area.  Notification shall then be
given to all property owners and occupants within the expanded
area.	Notwithstanding the above 24-calendar day notification period and the
500-foot notification radius, only 15 calendar days and a 500-foot radius shall
be required for any hearing conducted on the same site for a land use or
discretionary zoning approval for which a previous final decision pursuant to
this section has been made by the City.	2.	Hearing and Decision.  The matter
may be set for public hearing before the Director.  After the conclusion of a
public hearing, the Director may require the modification, discontinuance or
revocation of the land use or discretionary zoning approval, as the case may
be.  As part of the action, the Director may impose conditions of operation as
he or she deems appropriate, including those necessary to protect the best
interests of the surrounding property or neighborhood; to eliminate, lessen, or
prevent any detrimental effect on the surrounding property or neighborhood; or
to assure compliance with other applicable provisions of law or conditions of an
earlier discretionary approval.  Conditions imposed may include the
establishment of amortization schedules, the closure or removal of buildings or
structures, and affect the establishment, maintenance, or operation of the
subject use, and related land uses, buildings, or structures.	Whenever the
Director initiates an action pursuant to this section he or she shall impose a
condition requiring payment of the fee set forth in Section 19.01 P. of this
Code (fee condition) to cover the City’s costs in processing the matter.  A
fee is not required if the Director finds that the operation of the land use
does not create a nuisance or that the property owner, business operator or
person in control, is in substantial compliance with the conditions of
operation.  The fee condition shall further provide that if the decision is not
appealed, then the fee shall be paid in full to the City with confirmation of
the payment being provided to the Director within 30 days of the decision
date.  If an appeal is filed and the decision of the Director is upheld on
appeal, then the fee shall be paid in full with confirmation made to the
Director within 30 days of the effective date of the decision.  If the Council
reverses in total the decision of the Director, then no payment of fees other
than the appeal fee specified in Section 19.01 P. shall be required.	Any
determination shall be supported by written findings, including a finding that
the Director’s determination does not impair the constitutional rights of any
person.  The written determination shall also state that failure to comply with
any or all conditions imposed may result in the issuance of an order to
discontinue or revoke the land use or discretionary zoning approval.  The
Director may require the discontinuance or revocation of a land use or
discretionary zoning approval only upon finding that:	(a)	prior governmental
efforts to cause the owner or operator to eliminate the problems associated with
the land use or discretionary zoning approval have failed (examples include
formal action, such as citations, orders or hearings by the Police Department,
Department of Building and Safety, the Director, a Zoning Administrator, the
City Planning Commission, or any other governmental agency); and	(b)	the owner
or operator has failed to demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the Director, the
willingness or ability to eliminate the problems associated with the land use or
discretionary zoning approval.	If the Director discontinues or revokes any land
use or discretionary zoning approval pursuant to this section, the full cost of
the abatement, including the cost of inspection, shall become the personal
obligation of the business operator, property owner, or person in control.  If
confirmed by the Council, a lien may be placed against the property in
accordance with the procedures described in Administrative Code Sec.
7.35.3.	3.	Compliance Review.  Upon any finding of nuisance or non-compliance
with existing conditions imposed on the land use or discretionary zoning
approval, the Director’s determination shall impose a condition requiring the
business operator or property owner to file a Plan Approval application for
Review of Compliance with Conditions within two years of the effective date. 
At the discretion of the Director, the due date for the Plan Approval
application can be set for 90 days, 180 days, one year, 18 months or two years
from the effective date of the Director’s determination or the Council action
on appeal.	4.	Appeals.  An appeal from the decision of the Director may be
taken to the Council in the same manner as prescribed in Section 12.24 I.	An
appeal fee shall be charged pursuant to Section 19.01 P.  The Council’s
decision on appeal shall be processed in the manner prescribed in Section 12.24
I.6. 	Further, if it is determined by the Council that the decision of the
Director impairs the constitutional rights of any person, then it shall modify
the action accordingly, or refer the matter back to the Director for further
action.	5.	Violations.  It shall be unlawful to violate or fail to comply with
any requirement or condition imposed by the Director or the Council pursuant to
this section.  Violation or failure to comply shall constitute a violation of
this chapter and shall be subject to the same penalties as any other violation
of this chapter. In the event of a violation of an order to discontinue or
revoke a land use or discretionary zoning approval pursuant to this section, the
Department of Building and Safety shall order the owner to vacate and secure the
property, premises, buildings or portion of any property, premises or building
pursuant to Section 91.9003 of this Code.  The Department of Building and
Safety shall institute enforcement as provided in Section 91.9003.3 of this
Code.  The Director shall cause the determination or revocation to be
recorded.	D.	Residential Uses.  This subsection shall apply to all
single-family and multi-family residential uses, including residential hotels as
defined in Section 47.73 T. of this Code.  This subsection shall not apply to
hotels or motels that are not residential hotels. Nothing in this section or
Section 91.9001 et seq. of this Code is intended to supersede or abrogate the
rights of tenants provided by State statute or by the Los Angeles Housing Code
and Rent Stabilization Ordinance, or by any other provision of this Code.	1.	The
Director, as the initial decision maker, or the Council on appeal, shall ask the
City Attorney to initiate the process of having the residential use placed in
receivership pursuant to California Civil Code Section 3479 and Code of Civil
Procedure Section 564(b)(9), upon finding that:	(a)	prior governmental efforts
to cause the owner or operator to eliminate the problems associated with the
land use or discretionary zoning approval have failed (examples include formal
action, such as citations, orders or hearings by the Police Department,
Department of Building and Safety, the Director, a Zoning Administrator, the
City Planning Commission, or any other governmental agency); and	(b)	that the
owner or operator has failed to demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the
Director, the willingness or ability to eliminate the problems associated with
the land use or discretionary zoning approval.	2.	If the residential use is not
placed in receivership and the Director, as the initial decision maker, or the
Council on appeal, discontinues or revokes the land use or discretionary zoning
approval, resulting in the displacement of tenants then the following provisions
shall apply:	(a)	The Housing Department shall identify each tenant who was
displaced and is eligible for relocation assistance, and shall issue an order
requiring the owner to pay relocation benefits in the amounts specified in
Section 151.09 G. of this Code.	(b)	If the owner fails to pay relocation
benefits to an eligible tenant as required by this subsection, the Housing
Department may advance relocation benefits to the tenant in the amount set forth
in Section 151.09 G. of this Code.	(c)	If the owner fails to comply with an
order of the Housing Department to pay relocation benefits, the owner shall be
liable to the City for any relocation payments advanced, and the Housing
Department may obtain a lien upon the property pursuant to Los Angeles
Administrative Code Section 7.35.3 to recover the amount advanced and associated
costs.	(d)	Relocation benefits shall not be payable to any tenant who has caused
or substantially contributed to the condition giving rise to an order to vacate
issued pursuant to Section 91.9003.1 of this Code.  The Director shall
determine whether a tenant has caused or substantially contributed to the
condition giving rise to the order to vacate.	(e)	The Housing Department shall
inform each eligible tenant of his/her right to re-rental of the same unit, or
comparable unit, if the owner, or subsequent owner, re-establishes the
residential use.  The Housing Department shall inform the eligible tenant that
he/she must advise the owner in writing of his/her interest in re-renting and
must provide the owner with an address to which the owner can direct an
offer.	(f)	When the residential use is re-established, the accommodations shall
be offered, and rented or leased at the lawful rent in effect at the time the
residential use was discontinued or revoked, plus annual adjustments available
under Section 151.06 of this Code.	(g)	The Director’s determination or the
Council’s action shall include the provisions of this subsection and shall be
recorded by the Director as a covenant with the Office of the County
Recorder.	E.	Modification of Administrative Decisions.  Any administrative
nuisance abatement decision made pursuant to this chapter, any conditions
imposed by that decision, or any decisions on a discretionary zoning approval
pursuant to this section may be modified pursuant to the provisions of this
subsection.  Upon application by the business operator, property owner or
lessee(s), the Director may modify or eliminate the conditions of a prior
decision.  An application shall be made on official forms provided by the
Department of Planning and shall be accompanied by a filing fee as specified in
Section 19.01 P.	An application may be considered if a time period of at least
one year has passed from the date the conditions were originally imposed; or if
there have been substantial changes in the nature and operation of the land use
or discretionary zoning approval; or if there has been a change in circumstances
such that the continued enforcement of the previously imposed conditions is no
longer reasonable or necessary.  All applications shall include a radius map, a
list of property owners and occupants within 500 feet, and plot plan drawn to
scale.	An application shall be set for public hearing.  The Director may grant
or deny the requested application, or modify the prior decision, including
imposing new or different substitute conditions as the Director deems
appropriate.  No modification shall be approved pursuant to this subsection
unless the Director finds each of the following:	1.	That the requirements for
consideration of the application under this subsection have been met;
and	2.	That due consideration has been given to the effects of the modification
on surrounding properties.	An appeal from the decision of the Director may be
taken to the Council in the same manner as prescribed in Subsection C. of this
section.	When the Director orders the discontinuance or revocation of a land use
or discretionary zoning approval and the applicant files for re-instatement of
the land use pursuant to this subsection, the Director may re-instate the land
use if all findings of this subsection are met.  The applicant will not be
issued a new certificate of occupancy.	Subsequent applications for
reconsideration may be filed in accordance with this subsection.  If the
application is denied with prejudice, a subsequent application for
reconsideration shall not be filed within one year from the reconsideration
decision date, and then only if a property owner, business operator or lessee(s)
shows that the circumstances involving the land use or discretionary zoning
approval have substantially and materially changed since the last
reconsideration.	F.	Continuation of Prior Decisions.  Prior administrative
nuisance abatement decisions regarding land uses and discontinuances,
revocations, rescissions or modifications of discretionary zoning approvals made
by the Zoning Administrator, City Planning Commission or the Council shall
remain in full force and effect.  Further, it shall continue to be unlawful to
violate or fail to comply with any prior requirement or condition imposed by the
Zoning Administrator, the former Board of Zoning Appeals, the City Planning
Commission, or the Council.  Violation or failure to comply shall constitute a
violation of this chapter and shall be subject to the same penalties as any
other violation of this chapter.  In the event of a violation of an order of
discontinuance or revocation, the Department of Building and Safety shall order
the business operator, property owner or lessee(s) to vacate and secure the
property, premises, buildings or portion thereof pursuant to Section 91.9003 of
this Code.  The Department of Building and Safety shall institute enforcement
as provided in LAMC Sec. 91.9003.4 of this Code.
