                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

HEIGHT OF BUILDING OR STRUCTURES. (§ 12.21.1)

  HEIGHT OF BUILDING OR STRUCTURES.	No building or structure shall be erected
or enlarged which exceeds the total floor area, the number of stories or the
height limits hereinafter specified for the district in which the building or
structure is located. Provided, however, that with respect to height, buildings
and structures located within the boundaries of the Century City North and
Century City South Specific Plans shall comply solely with the requirements of
the respective specific plan and the requirements of Section 12.21.2 of this
Code; that buildings and structures located within Community Redevelopment Plan
Areas shall comply with the requirements of Section 12.21.3 of this Code; that
buildings and structures located within Enterprise Zones shall comply with the
requirements of Section 12.21.4 of this Code; and that buildings and structures
located within Centers Study Areas designated on Maps Numbered 1 through 29
referred to in Section 12.21.5 of this Code, shall comply with the requirements
of Section 12.21.5 of this Code. Such designations are consistent with the
purposes, intent and provisions of the General Plan. (Amended by Ord. No.
161,684, Eff. 11/3/86.)	In the A1, A2, RZ, RMP, and RW2 Zones, and in those
portions of the RD and R3 Zones, which are also in Height District No. 1, no
Building or Structure shall exceed 45 feet in height.  In the RA, RE, RS, R1
and R2 Zones in Height District No. 1, located in a Coastal Zone, no Building or
Structure shall exceed 45 feet in height.  In the RU and RW1 Zones, no Building
or Structure shall exceed 30 feet in height.  In the RA, RE, RS, and R1 Zones
in Height District No. 1, located in a Hillside Area, as defined in Section
12.03 of this Code, no Building or Structure shall exceed the height limits
established in Paragraph (d) of Subdivision 10. of Subsection C. of Section
12.21 of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,624, Eff.
5/9/11.)	Notwithstanding the preceding paragraph, the following height
regulations shall apply on a Lot that is not located in a Hillside Area or
Coastal Zone:  In the R2 Zone, no Building or Structure shall exceed 33 feet in
height.  In the R1, RS, or RE9 Zones, no Building or Structure shall exceed 33
feet in height; except that when the roof of the uppermost Story of a Building
or Structure or portion of the Building or Structure has a Slope of less than 25
percent, the maximum height shall be 28 feet.  In the RE11, RE15, RE20, RE 40
or RA Zones, no Building or Structure shall exceed 36 feet in height; except
that when the roof of the uppermost Story of a Building or Structure or portion
of a Building or Structure has a Slope of less than 25 percent, the maximum
height shall be 30 feet.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,624, Eff.
5/9/11.)	Notwithstanding the above, when 40 percent or more of the existing
One-Family Dwellings with Frontage on both sides of the block have Building
heights exceeding these limits, the maximum height for any Building on that
block may be the average height of the Dwellings exceeding these limits. 
Height limitations in Specific Plans, Historic Preservation Overlay Zones or in
subdivision approvals shall take precedence over the requirements of this
Section 12.21.1.  This section shall apply when there are no height limitations
imposed on Lots by a Specific Plan or a Historic Overlay Zone or created by a
subdivision approval.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,624, Eff. 5/9/11.)	In the CR Zone
and those portions of the RD, R3, and RAS3 Zones, which are in Height District
Nos. 2, 3 or 4, no building or structure shall exceed six stories nor shall it
exceed 75 feet in height.  However, a building designed and used entirely for
residential purposes or a residential building in the RAS3 Zone that has
commercial uses on the ground floor, shall only be limited as to the number of
feet in height.  (Amended by Ord. No. 174,999, Eff. 1/15/03.)	In the PB Zone,
no parking building shall exceed a height of two stories in Height District No.
1; provided, however, that the parking of automobiles shall be permitted on the
roof of the parking building if a solid enclosing wall or parapet wall at least
three feet six inches in height is provided and maintained around all those
portions of the roof which are arranged and used for the parking of automobiles.
No parking building in a PB zone shall exceed a height of six stories in Height
District No. 2, ten stories in Height District No. 3 or 13 stories in Height
District No. 4. Basement floors, located entirely below the natural or finished
grade of a lot, whichever is lower, shall not be considered in computing the
permitted height of parking buildings in the PB Zone.  (Amended by Ord. No.
122,569, Eff. 9/2/62.)	A.	Limitations.	1.	(Amended by Ord. No. 181,624, Eff.
5/9/11.)  The total Floor Area contained in all the main Buildings on a Lot in
a commercial or industrial zone in Height District No. 1 shall not exceed
one-and-one-half times the Buildable Area of the Lot; for a Lot in all other
zones, except the RA, RE, RS, and R1 Zones, the total Floor Area contained in
all the main Buildings on a Lot in Height District No. 1 shall not exceed three
times the Buildable Area of the Lot.	For RA, RE, RS, and R1 Zoned properties not
located in a Hillside Area or Coastal Zone, the total Residential Floor Area
shall comply with the Floor Area restrictions for each zone.  For RA, RE, RS,
and R1 Zoned properties located in a Hillside Area, as defined in Section 12.03
of this Code, the total Residential Floor Area shall comply with the limits
established in Paragraph (b) of Subdivision 10. of Subsection C. of Section
12.21 of this Code.  For RA, RE, RS, and R1 Zoned properties in a Coastal Zone
not located in a Hillside Area, as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code, the
total Floor Area contained in all the main buildings on a Lot shall not exceed
three times the Buildable Area of the Lot.	Portions of Height District No. 1 may
be designated as being in an “L” Limited Height District, and no Building or
Structure in Height District No. 1-L shall exceed six Stories, nor shall it
exceed 75 feet in height.  Portions of Height District No. 1 may be designated
as being in a “VL” Very Limited Height District, and no Building or
Structure in Height District No. 1-VL shall exceed three Stories, nor shall it
exceed 45 feet in height.  Notwithstanding that limitation, portions of Height
District No. 1-VL that are also in the RAS3 or RAS4 Zones shall not exceed 50
feet in height.  Portions of Height District No. 1 may also be designated as
being in an “XL” Extra Limited Height District, and no Building or Structure
in Height District No. 1-XL shall exceed two Stories, nor shall the highest
point of the roof of any Building or Structure located in this District exceed
30 feet in height.  In the RA, RE, RS, and R1 Zones, portions of Height
District No. 1 may also be designated as being in an “SS” Single Story Limit
Height District, and no Building or Structure in Height District No. 1-SS shall
exceed one Story, nor shall the highest point of the roof of any Building or
Structure located in this District exceed 18 feet in height.  For the purposes
of Height District No. 1-SS, a Basement does not count as a Story when the
Elevation of the upper surface of the floor or roof above the Basement does not
exceed two feet in height at any point above the finished or natural Grade,
whichever is lower.	EXCEPTION:  A Building in Height District Nos. 1-XL, 1-VL,
designed and used entirely for residential purposes, or a Building in the RAS3
or RAS4 Zones shall be limited as to the number of feet in height, but not as to
the number of Stories.	2.	The total floor area contained in all the buildings on
a lot in Height District No. 2 shall not exceed six times the buildable area of
said lot. (Amended by Ord. No. 161,684, Eff. 11/3/86.)	3.	The total floor area
contained in all the buildings on a lot in Height District No. 3 shall not
exceed ten times the buildable area of said lot. (Amended by Ord. No. 161,684,
Eff. 11/3/86.)	4.	The total floor area contained in all the buildings on a lot
in Height District No. 4 shall not exceed thirteen times the buildable area of
said lot. (Amended by Ord. No. 161,684, Eff. 11/3/86.)	5.	In computing the total
floor area within a building, the gross area confined within the exterior walls
within a building shall be considered as the floor area of that floor of the
building, except for the space devoted to stairways, elevator shafts, light
courts, rooms housing mechanical equipment incidental to the operation of
buildings, and outdoor eating areas of ground floor restaurants. (Amended by
Ord. No. 165,403, Eff. 2/17/90.)	6.	Whenever any unusual situation or design of
building exists so that it is difficult to determine the precise application of
those provisions, the Department of Building and Safety shall make such
determinations in a manner to carry out the indicated purpose and intent
hereof.	7.	(None)	8.	In determining the number of stories, any basement
containing habitable rooms shall be considered a story.  (Added by Ord. No.
131,309, Eff. 4/24/66.)	9.	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.) 
Additional limitations may be required as set forth in Section 12.32
G.3.	10.	(Added by Ord. No. 161,684, Eff. 11/3/86.)  Notwithstanding any other
provisions of this section, portions of buildings on a C or M zoned lot governed
by the provisions of this section shall not exceed the height limits set forth
below when located within the distances specified from a lot classified in the
RW1 Zone or a more restrictive zone.
  
    
      
        Distance
      
      
        Height
      
    
    
      
        0 to 49 feet
      
      
        25 feet
      
    
    
      
        50 to 99 feet
      
      
        33 feet
      
    
    
      
        100 to 199 feet
      
      
        61 feet
      
    
  
	When the highest existing elevation of the adjacent property in the RW1 Zone or
a more restrictive zone exceeds the grade of a C or M zoned property by more
than five feet, a building or structure on the C or M zoned property may exceed
the height specified above by the number of feet  represented by the difference
in grade.	Buildings of a height greater than that specified in this subdivision
may be authorized by a Zoning Administrator pursuant to Section 12.24 X.22. 
(Para. Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)	B.	Exceptions.	1.	In Height
District No. 1, motion picture studio stages, scenes or skybackings, temporary
towers and the like may be erected to a height of 125 feet if said building and
structures observe front, side, and rear yards of one foot for each four feet
such building or structure exceeds three stories or 45 feet in height. Said
yards shall be in addition to any other yards or setbacks required by other
provisions of this article.	2.	Whenever the highest point of elevation of the
adjoining sidewalk or ground surface within a five-foot horizontal distance
measured from the exterior wall of a building exceeds grade level by more than
20 feet, a building or structure may exceed the height in number of feet
prescribed in this section by not more than 12 feet.  However, such additional
height shall not be permitted to the extent that such additional height causes
any portion of the building or structure to exceed a height in number of feet as
prescribed by this section as measured from the highest point of the roof
structure or parapet wall to the elevation of the ground surface which is
vertically below this point of measurement.  The provisions of this subdivision
shall not apply to any one-family dwelling subject to the provisions of Section
12.21 A.17. of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 168,159, Eff. 9/14/92.)	3.	Roof
Structures and Equipment.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,110, Eff.
5/29/12.)	(a)	Tanks or similar equipment required to operate and maintain the
building, skylights, towers, steeples, flagpoles,  smokestacks, wireless masts,
water tanks, silos, or similar structures may be erected above the building
height limit by up to five feet if the structure is set back from the roof
perimeter by five feet.	Chimney, exhaust ducts, solar water heaters, or any roof
structure housing stairways, elevators or ventilation fans may also exceed the
building height limit by up to five feet, but are not required to provide a
setback from the perimeter of the roof.  Where height is limited to
seventy-five (75) feet, roof structures for the housing of elevators and
stairways may exceed the building height limit by up to twenty (20) feet in
height, and where height is limited to thirty (30) feet or forty-five (45)
feet,  roof structures for the housing of elevators and stairways may exceed
the building height limit by up to ten (10) feet in height.	No such structure or
any other space above the specified height limit shall be allowed for the
purpose of providing additional floor space.	(b)	In all zones, except the
“A”, “R”, “CR”, “C1&#038;″ and “C1.5&#038;″, a roof sign may
also be erected above the specified height limit.	(c)	Structures and panel
assemblies solely supporting solar energy systems (“Solar
Structures”).	(1)	In all zones, Solar Structures may exceed the roof surface
by 3 feet even if the roof surface is at or above the allowable building height
limit.  The height shall be measured to the highest point of the structure and
panel assembly.  These structures are not required to provide a setback as
described in paragraph (a) of this Subdivision.	(2)	Other than the R1 and more
restrictive zones, solar structures built on a flat roof may exceed the roof
surface by up to 15 feet even if the roof surface is at or above the allowable
building height limit.  The height shall be measured to the highest point of
the structure and panel assembly.	Exception: In the R1 and more restrictive
zones, a solar structure may exceed the roof surface by up to 15 feet on a flat
roof only if the structure is also used for the purpose of shading a habitable
rooftop deck or rooftop parking.  The structure(s), however, may not exceed the
height limit.  Setbacks are not required by this paragraph.	4.	In all height
districts parking floor space with necessary interior driveways and ramps
thereto, space within a roof structure or penthouse for the housing of building
operating equipment or machinery, space provided for the landing and storage of
helicopters and basement storage space shall not be considered in determining
the total floor area within a building.  (Amended by Ord. No. 146,704, Eff.
12/9/74.)	5.	Notwithstanding the height limitations of the height district in
which they are located, municipal buildings under the control, operation or
management of City departments or agencies may be built to a maximum height of
35 feet.  In addition, sports field lighting standards in parks under the
control, operation or management of the Board of Recreation and Park
Commissioners and used for recreation purposes as determined by that agency may
be built to a maximum height of 75 feet and must be equipped with appropriate
beam control to direct the light onto the field and prevent glare and spill
light from impacting neighboring properties, and shall include automatic timer
control with an on/off scheduling system.  (Added by Ord. No. 174,788, Eff.
10/05/02.)	6.	(Amended by Ord. No. 163,627, Eff. 6/20/88.)  Notwithstanding the
provisions of Section 12.21.1 A.10., buildings on a lot in a C or M zone in
Height District No. 1 shall not be restricted in height as provided by Section
12.21.1 A.10., under either of the following circumstances:	a.	(Amended by Ord.
No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  Where one or more of the following discretionary
approvals, initiated by application of property owners or their representatives,
was granted on or after January 1, 1983, and specifically addressed the height
for one or more buildings: change of zone, height district change, exception
from a specific plan, conditional use, variance, tract map, parcel map or
coastal development permit. If the approval provided for a specific height, then
the restriction shall apply to the buildings and structures on the lot;
or	b.	Where architectural and structural plans sufficient for a complete plan
check for a building permit for a building or structure were accepted by the
Department of Building and Safety and for which a plan check fee was collected
on or before the effective date of this subdivision, and for which no subsequent
changes are made to those plans which increase the height. However, any such
building permit shall become invalid if construction pursuant to such permit is
not commenced within 18 months of the date the plan check fee was collected.
