                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

VARIANCES. (§ 12.27)

  VARIANCES.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)	Procedure for
	A.	Application for Variance.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.) 
To apply for a variance, an applicant shall file an application with the
Department of City Planning, on a form provided by the Department, and include
all information required by the instructions on the application and the
guidelines adopted by the Chief Zoning Administrator.  The Chief Zoning
Administrator shall adopt guidelines for determining when an application is
complete and that date shall be deemed the submission date.  All owners and
lessees of the property involved shall verify that the information in the
application is true.	B.	Initial Decision.  Except as otherwise provided in
Charter Section 564 and Section 12.36 of this Code, the initial decision on a
variance application shall be made by the Zoning Administrator,.  For purposes
of this Code section, the initial decision shall mean approval in whole or in
part with or without conditions, or denial, of the application.	C.	Public
Hearing and Notice.  An application for a variance shall be set for public
hearing unless the Chief Zoning Administrator or, in his or her absence, an
Associate Zoning Administrator performing his or her functions, makes written
findings, a copy of which shall be attached to the file, that the requested
variance:	(i)	will not have a significant effect on adjoining properties or on
the immediate neighborhood; or	(ii)	is not likely to evoke public
controversy.	An application requesting relief from density or height
requirements shall follow the procedures for public hearing and notice as set
forth in Section 12.28 C.2.  All other applications shall follow the procedures
set forth below.  (First Para. Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)	The
Zoning Administrator may set the variance for hearing even though a public
hearing is not otherwise required, if the Zoning Administrator determines that
it would be in the public interest.  In that event, notwithstanding the notice
requirements below, notice of the public hearing shall be mailed to the owners
of all properties abutting, across the street or alley from or having a common
corner with the subject property.	When a public hearing is required by this Code
for an application for a variance, evidence shall be taken at that hearing and
notice of the time, place, and purpose of the hearing shall be given:	1.	by
mailing a written notice at least 24 days prior to the date of the hearing to
the owner or owners of the property involved, and to the owners of all property
within and outside of the City that is within 500 feet of the exterior
boundaries of the property involved, using for the purpose of notification, the
last known name and address of owners as are shown on the records of the City
Engineer or the records of the County Assessor; and  (Amended by Ord. No.
181,595, Eff. 4/10/11.)	2.	by mailing a written notice no less than 24 days
prior to the date of the hearing to residential, commercial and industrial
occupants of all property within 500 feet of the exterior boundaries of the
property involved.  This requirement can be met by mailing the notice to
“occupant”.  If this notice provision will not result in notice being given
to at least 20 different owners of at least 20 different lots other than the
subject property, then the 500-foot radius for notification shall be increased
in increments of 50 feet until the required number of persons and lots are
encompassed within the expanded area.  Notification shall then be given to all
property owners and occupants within that area; and	3.	by the applicant posting
notice of the public hearing in a conspicuous place on the property involved at
least ten days prior to the date of the public hearing.	D.	Findings for
Approval.  The decision of the Zoning Administrator shall be supported by
written findings of fact based upon evidence taken, written or oral statements
and documents presented, which may include photographs, maps and plans, together
with the results of any staff investigations.	Consistent with Charter Section
562, no variance may be granted unless the Zoning Administrator finds all of the
following:	1.	that the strict application of the provisions of the zoning
ordinance would result in practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships
inconsistent with the general purposes and intent of the zoning
regulations;	2.	that there are special circumstances applicable to the subject
property such as size, shape, topography, location or surroundings that do not
apply generally to other property in the same zone and vicinity;	3.	that the
variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a substantial
property right or use generally possessed by other property in the same zone and
vicinity but which, because of the special circumstances and practical
difficulties or unnecessary hardships, is denied to the property in
question;	4.	that the granting of the variance will not be materially
detrimental to the public welfare, or injurious to the property or improvements
in the same zone or vicinity in which the property is located; and	5.	that the
granting of the variance will not adversely affect any element of the General
Plan.	A variance shall not be used to grant a special privilege or to permit a
use substantially inconsistent with the limitations upon other properties in the
same zone and vicinity.  The Zoning Administrator may deny a variance if the
conditions creating the need for the variance were self-imposed.	Upon making a
decision, the Zoning Administrator shall transmit a copy of the written findings
and decisions to the applicant, the Director of Planning, the Department of
Building and Safety, owners of all properties abutting, across the street or
alley from, or having a common corner with the subject property and to all
persons who have filed written requests for this notice with the Office of
Zoning Administrator.  The Zoning Administrator shall also place a copy of the
findings and decision in the file.	E.	Conditions of Approval.  In approving a
variance, the Zoning Administrator may impose those conditions it deems
necessary to remedy a disparity of privileges and that the Zoning Administrator
finds are necessary to protect the public health, safety or welfare and assure
compliance with the objectives of the General Plan and the purpose and intent of
the zoning.	F.	Time to Act.  The initial decision shall be made within 75 days
of the submission of a complete application, or within an extended period as
mutually agreed upon in writing by the applicant and the Zoning Administrator. 
An initial decision shall include the written findings made in accordance with
Subsection D.	G.	Failure to Act -Transfer of Jurisdiction.	1.	If the Zoning
Administrator fails to act on an application for a variance within the time
provided in Subsection F, the applicant may file a request for a transfer of
jurisdiction to the Area Planning Commission for decision.  The Director of
Planning shall prescribe the form and manner of filing requests for transfers of
jurisdiction.  When an applicant requests that a matter be transferred, the
Zoning Administrator may file with the Area Planning Commission a statement of
facts pertaining to the matter, and shall transmit to the Area Planning
Commission the files in the case.	2.	When the Area Planning Commission receives
the applicant’s request for a transfer of jurisdiction, the Zoning
Administrator shall lose jurisdiction; provided, however, that the Area Planning
Commission may remand the matter to the Zoning Administrator, or may accept the
applicant’s request for withdrawal of the transfer of jurisdiction, in which
case the Zoning Administrator shall regain jurisdiction for the time and
purposes specified by the Area Planning Commission.	3.	If no remand or request
for withdrawal of the transfer occurs, the Area Planning Commission shall
consider the application following the same procedures and subject to the same
limitations as are applicable to the Zoning Administrator, except that the Area
Planning Commission shall act within 45 days of the transfer of jurisdiction. 
The Department of City Planning, including the Office of Zoning Administration,
shall make investigations and furnish any reports the Area Planning Commission
may request.	H.	Filing of an Appeal.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff.
10/10/00.)  Any person aggrieved by an initial decision of the Zoning
Administrator concerning a variance, may appeal the decision to the Area
Planning Commission by filing an appeal with the Planning Department within 15
days of the date of mailing of the Zoning Administrator’s decision.  The
appeal shall be filed in the Department of City Planning on a form provided by
the Department, and shall set forth specifically the points at issue, the
reasons for the appeal, and the basis upon which the appellant claims there was
an error or abuse of discretion by the Zoning Administrator.  The Area Planning
Commission shall not consider any appeal not filed within the 15-day period. 
The filing of an appeal stays proceedings in the matter until the Area Planning
Commission has made a decision.  Once an appeal is filed, the Office of Zoning
Administration shall transmit the appeal and the Zoning Administrator file to
the Area Planning Commission.  At any time prior to the action of the Area
Planning Commission on the appeal, the Zoning Administrator shall submit any
supplementary pertinent information he or she deems necessary or as the Area
Planning Commission may request.	I.	Appellate Decision – Public Hearing and
Notice.  Before acting on the appeal, the Area Planning Commission shall set
the matter for hearing, giving notice by mail of the time, place and purpose of
the hearing to the appellant, to the applicant, to the owner or owners of the
property involved, to the Zoning Administrator, and to any interested party who
has requested in writing to be so notified.  The notice shall be mailed at
least 24 days prior to the hearing.  If the appeal is from the grant or denial
of a use variance, the Area Planning Commission shall give the same notice of
the hearing as required for the original hearing on the matter.  Upon the date
set for the hearing, the Area Planning Commission shall either hear the appeal
or if there is cause to do so, continue the matter to another date.  No notice
of continuance need be given if the continuance is announced at the time for
which the hearing was set.	J.	Time for Appellate Decision.  The Area Planning
Commission shall make its decision within 75 days after the expiration of the
appeal period.  The 75 day time limit to act on an appeal may be extended by
mutual written consent of the applicant and the Area Planning Commission.  If
the Area Planning Commission fails to act within this time limit, the action of
the Zoning Administrator on the matter shall be final, except as provided in
Subsection N. below.  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)	K.	Record
on Appeal.  The Area Planning Commission shall base its decision only
upon:	1.	evidence introduced at the hearing or hearings, if any, before the
Zoning Administrator, on the issue; and	2.	the record, findings, and decision of
the Zoning Administrator; and	3.	the consideration of arguments, if any,
presented to the Area Planning Commission orally or in writing.	If any applicant
or aggrieved person wishes to present any new evidence in connection with the
matter, he or she shall file with the Area Planning Commission a written summary
of that evidence, together with a statement as to why that evidence could not
reasonably have been presented to the Zoning Administrator.  If the Area
Planning Commission determines that the evidence could not reasonably have been
presented to the Zoning Administrator and the evidence is of such a nature as
might reasonably have led to a different decision by the Zoning Administrator,
the Area Planning Commission shall remand the matter to the Zoning
Administrator.  The Zoning Administrator shall reopen the matter only for
receipt of the evidence summarized to the Area Planning Commission, and evidence
from other parties relevant to the newly presented evidence, and within 55 days
(or within an extension of that time agreed upon by the applicant and the Area
Planning Commission) make a new order, requirement, interpretation or other
decision in the matter.	L.	Appellate Decision.  The Area Planning Commission
may reverse or modify the ruling or decision appealed from only upon making
written findings setting forth specifically the manner in which the action of
the Zoning Administrator was in error or constituted an abuse of discretion. 
Upon making a decision, a copy of the findings and decision shall forthwith be
placed on file in the City Planning Department, and copies of the decision shall
be sent to the applicant, the appellant, the Department of Building and Safety,
the Director of Planning and the Office of Zoning Administration.	In considering
appeals, the Area Planning Commission shall be subject to the same limitations
regarding findings and conditions as are applicable to a Zoning Administrator
under Subsections D and E.	M.	Date of Final Decision.  Because no further
appeals are permitted, a denial of a variance by an Area Planning Commission on
appeal shall become final upon the date it was mailed to the applicant. 
However, a decision by the Area Planning Commission granting or confirming the
grant of a variance shall become final after 15 days from the date it was mailed
to the applicant, unless an appeal is filed with the Council within that
period.  The filing of an appeal stays proceedings in the matter until the
Council makes a decision on the matter.  The Council shall not consider any
appeal not filed within the fifteen day period.	N.	Failure to Act – Transfer
of Jurisdiction.	1.	If the Area Planning Commission fails to act on an appeal of
a grant of a variance within the time provided in Subsection J, the appellant
may file a request for a transfer of jurisdiction to the Council for decision. 
The Director of Planning shall prescribe the form and manner of filing requests
for transfers of jurisdiction.  When a matter is requested to be transferred,
the Zoning Administrator and the Area Planning Commission may file with the
Council a statement of facts pertaining to the matter, and shall transmit to the
Council the files in the case.	2.	When the Council receives the appellant’s
request for a transfer of jurisdiction, the Area Planning Commission shall lose
jurisdiction; provided, however, that the Council may remand the matter to the
Area Planning Commission, or may accept the appellant’s request for withdrawal
of the transfer of jurisdiction, in which case the Area Planning Commission
shall regain jurisdiction for the time and purposes specified by the
Council.	3.	If no remand or request for withdrawal of the transfer occurs, the
Council shall consider the application following the same procedures and subject
to the same limitations as are applicable to the Area Planning Commission,
except that the Council shall act within 45 days of the transfer of
jurisdiction.  The Department of City Planning, including the Office of Zoning
Administration, shall make investigations and furnish any reports as the Council
may request.	O.	Appeal to City Council.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,754, Eff.
3/5/01.)  An appeal from a decision of the Area Planning Commission granting or
affirming the grant of a variance may be filed by the applicant or any person
aggrieved by the decision.  The appeal shall set forth in writing specifically
the manner in which the appellant believes there was error or abuse of
discretion on the part of the Area Planning Commission.  The appeal shall be
filed in the Department of City Planning upon forms provided by the
Department.  Upon the filing of the appeal, the Area Planning Commission
Secretary shall transmit the Area Planning Commission file and the Zoning
Administrator file on the matter to the City Council together with any reports
prepared on this matter by the Zoning Administrator or Commission.	P.	Action by
Council and Mayor.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,754, Eff. 3/5/01.)	1.	When
considering an appeal from an Area Planning Commission decision granting or
affirming the grant of a variance, the Council shall be subject to the same
limitations regarding findings and conditions as are placed on the Area Planning
Commission by this section.  The Council, by resolution, may affirm, reverse or
modify, in whole or in part, the decision of the Area Planning Commission by a
majority vote.  Failure of the Council to act within 90 days from the
expiration of the appeal period, or within any additional period as may be
agreed upon by the applicant and the Council shall be deemed to be a denial of
the appeal.	2.	When a variance decision is appealed to the City Council and the
Council either approves the variance or denies an appeal from an earlier
approval, the matter together with the files and reports shall forthwith be
transmitted to the Mayor.  The Mayor may approve or disapprove the variance
within ten days of its presentation to him or her.  This action shall be based
solely upon the administrative record and whether the Mayor believes the
variance conforms with the requirements for approval set forth in this
section.  If the Mayor disapproves the variance, he or she shall return the
matter to the City Clerk for presentation to the Council, together with the
objections in writing.  The Council within 60 days after the matter has been
returned to it may override the disapproval by a two-thirds vote.	3.	If the
Council fails to override the Mayor’s disapproval within the 60 days, the
Mayor’s disapproval shall constitute a denial of the variance.  If the Mayor
fails to return the matter to the City Clerk within ten days of its presentation
to him or her, the approval of the variance shall become final.	Q.	(Deleted by
Ord. No. 182,106, Eff. 5/20/12.)	R.	Continuance of Variance or Exception. 
Except as provided in Subsection T of this subsection with respect to variances
or exceptions which have never been or are not being utilized, no provision of
this article shall be interpreted or construed as limiting or interfering with
the rights established by any variance or exception granted prior to the
effective date of this article by:	(a)	ordinance pursuant to the provisions of
Ordinances Nos. 42,666 (N.S.), 66,750, 74,140 or Chapter I of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code;	(b)	decision of the Administrator or the former Board of Zoning
Appeals pursuant to the provisions of Chapter I of this Code; or	(c)	former
decision of the Board of City Planning Commissioners pursuant to the provisions
of Ordinance No. 74,145 or Chapter I of this Code.	Not withstanding any of the
provisions of the ordinance granting a variance or exception, the Administrator
shall have jurisdiction to perform all administrative acts with which the Board
of City Planning Commissioners, City Council or its Planning Committee were
formerly charged with under the ordinance, such as approving plans, signs, types
of use, and the like.  The use of any building, structure or land existing at
the time this article became effective, by virtue of any exception from the
provisions of former Ordinance No. 33,761 (N.S.), may be continued provided no
new building or structure is erected, no existing building or structure is
enlarged, and no existing use of land is extended.	S.	Discontinuance of Variance
or Exception – Revocation.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.) 
If the use authorized by any variance granted by ordinance, or by decision of
the Zoning Administrator, the Area Planning Commission, City Planning Commission
or the City Council is or has been abandoned or discontinued for a period of six
months, or the conditions of the variance have not been complied with, the
Director, upon knowledge of this fact, may give notice to the record owner or
lessee of the real property affected to appear at a time and place fixed by the
Director and show cause why the ordinance or decision granting the variance
should not be repealed or rescinded, as the case may be.  (First Sentence
Amended by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)  After the hearing, the Director
may revoke the variance, or if an ordinance is involved, recommend to the City
Council that the ordinance be repealed.  The decision of the Director shall
become final after 15 days from the date of mailing of the decision to the owner
or lessees of the real property affected, unless an appeal to the Council is
filed within that 15-day period.  An appeal may be taken to Council in the same
manner as described in Subsections O and P of this section.  After revocation
or repeal, the property affected shall be subject to all the regulations of the
zone in which the property is located, as provided in this article.	T.	Failure
to Utilize Variance or Exception – Repeal.  The procedure for repeal of
variances that have been abandoned or discontinued as set forth in Subsection S
shall not apply to those exceptions or conditional variances granted by
ordinance and which were once utilized, but the authorized use or development
had been discontinued or removed from the site for at least one year and the
ordinance has been repealed.  If the rights established by any ordinance
previously adopted authorizing an exception or conditional variance from the
provisions of Chapter I of the Los Angeles Municipal Code, or Ordinances No.
42,666 (N.S.) 66,750 and 74,140, have never been executed or utilized, or, if
once utilized, the use or development authorized has been discontinued or
removed from the site for a period of least one year, that exception or
conditional variance shall no longer be of any force or effect and the
respective ordinance granting the exception or conditional variance is hereby
repealed.	U.	Plan Approvals.	1.	Development of Site.  On any lot or portion of
a lot on which a use is permitted pursuant to a variance, new buildings or
structures may be erected, enlargements may be made to existing buildings, and
existing uses may be extended if plans for those changes are submitted to and
approved by a Zoning Administrator.  A Zoning Administrator shall not approve
any use, single deviation or combination or series of deviations from the zoning
regulations which was not approved as part of the original variance, or which
would result in an increase in size or bulk of buildings exceeding 20
percent.	Any person submitting development plans, or any other person aggrieved
by a decision of a Zoning Administrator made relative to the approval or
disapproval of a development plan may appeal that decision to the Area Planning
Commission.  The appeal shall be in writing upon forms provided by the
Department of City Planning.  The appeal shall set forth specifically the basis
of the appeal and the reasons why the decision should be reversed or modified. 
The appeal shall be filed within 15 calendar days from the date of mailing of
the Zoning Administrator’s decision and shall include a filing fee pursuant to
Section 19.01B of this Code.  No fee shall be required for the filing of
appeals by other aggrieved persons.	2.	Reduction of Site.  So long as the use
approved by variance is continued, the entire approved site shall be retained
for the approved use, and no portion of the site shall be severed or utilized
for other purposes unless the plans for the reduced site are first submitted to
and approved by a Zoning Administrator.  The decision of a Zoning Administrator
on a proposed reduction of the area of an approved site shall be subject to the
same appeal as is provided for an application to establish the
use.	3.	Conditions of Approval.  In connection with the approval of such plans,
a Zoning Administrator may impose conditions on the same basis as provided for
in this section in connection with the original variance.	4.	Change of Use.  No
use approved by variance may be changed in a different use for which a variance
is otherwise required unless the new use is authorized in accordance with the
procedure prescribed in this section for the establishment of a use by variance.
