                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

LAND USE DETERMINATION BY CITY PLANNING COMMISSION. (§ 12.24.1)

  LAND USE DETERMINATION BY CITY PLANNING COMMISSION.
	(Title Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)	A.	Purpose.  
The principal objective of the Land Use Element of the General Plan is to
provide for the proper location of all types of land use. Among those land use
categories which are necessary to the public health, safety, welfare and
convenience are Public, Quasi-Public, Public/Quasi-Public Use, Other Public and
Open Space. Physical development in these areas is intended to be used in a
manner consistent with such designated purposes. This principle also applies to
property shown, on the land use map of the General Plan as having existing
lakes, waterways, reservoirs, debris basins, or similar facilities, or as the
location of a freeway right-of-way; and to any property annexed to the City of
Los Angeles where a Plan amendment was not adopted as part of the annexation
proceedings. Any other use of these parcels requires special consideration as to
its appropriateness in relation to adjacent uses, to the development of the
community, and to the various Elements of the General Plan. Therefore, the
development of such locations shall be regulated by the following provisions of
this section.	B.	Scope.  This section shall apply to any property designated by
the land use map of the applicable Community or District Plan for a land use
category of Public, Quasi-Public, Public/Quasi-Public Use, Other Public, or Open
Space, and to property shown on such map as having existing lakes, waterways,
reservoirs, debris basins, or similar facilities, or as the location of a
freeway right-of-way. This section shall also apply to any property which was
annexed to the City of Los Angeles where a Plan  amendment was not adopted as
part of the annexation proceedings.	Notwithstanding the above, this section
shall not apply to any of the following:	1.	The issuance of a building permit
for any alteration, remodeling or repair of an existing building or structure if
such alteration does not increase the height, floor area, number of occupants,
dwelling units, guest rooms, or parking previously existing for said building or
structure and does not change the use;	2.	A use consisting of one single-family
dwelling, including accessory uses;	3.	A residential use consisting of more than
one dwelling units, including accessory uses, which does not exceed 10% of the
density permitted by the zoning on said lot;	4.	A nonresidential use permitted
by the zoning of a lot, provided that such, use (including all buildings,
driveways, roadways, or other paved or impermeable surfaces) does not cover more
than 20% of the lot area, and that any proposed buildings or structures do not
exceed two stories or 25 feet in height;	5.	Any valid conditional use, which has
not expired;	6.	Any tentative tract where a determination of consistency with
the General Plan was adopted or approved after January 1, 1979, and has not
expired, provided such action was taken subsequent to the adoption of the
Community or District Plan land use designation for the area involved;	7.	Uses
expressly exempted from the provisions of this section by an ordinance changing
the zone classification of a lot;	8.	A use permitted by an ordinance
establishing a Supplemental Use District pursuant to Section 13.00 et seq. of
this Code;	9.	Developments where a final determination of consistency with the
General Plan was made prior to June 1, 1988, pursuant to Sections 5 or 6 of
Ordinance No 159,748, the Interim Permit Consistency Ordinance;	10.	Parks,
playgrounds or community centers, owned and operated by a federal state or local
governmental agency;	11.	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  Projects subject to Section 15.00 of this Code;	12.	Property within
the boundaries of the adopted Port of Los Angeles District Plan and subject to
the provisions of the adopted Port Master Plan, which is a local coastal program
implementing the provisions of the California Coastal Act of 1976;
and	13.	Property for which a written determination of exception by the Director
of Planning pursuant to Subsection H. of this section has been
obtained.	C.	Authority of City Planning Commission.  (Amended by Ord. No.
173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  If the City Planning Commission finds
that a lot is within the scope of this section, as set forth in Subsection B.,
then the City Planning Commission may approve a use permitted by the zoning of
the lot if it finds that the proposed use at the proposed location will be
proper in relation to adjacent uses, desirable to the public convenience or
welfare and that the use and location will be consistent with the objectives of
the various elements of the General Plan.  In making a determination of
consistency, the City Planning Commission shall consider whether the density,
intensity, (i.e., floor area), height and use of the proposed development are
permitted by and compatible with the designated use, density, intensity, height
(or range of uses, densities, intensities or heights) set forth for adjacent and
surrounding properties on the land use map of the applicable community or
district plan and as those designations are further explained by any footnotes
on the map and the text of the plan.	D.	Conditions of Approval.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  In granting an approval of a use
pursuant to this section, the City Planning Commission may impose conditions as
it deems necessary to protect the best interests of the surrounding property or
neighborhood, to assure that the proposed use will be compatible with land uses,
zoning classifications, and other restrictions of adjacent and surrounding
properties, and to secure an appropriate development in harmony with the
objectives of the General Plan.	E.	Procedure and Appeal.  (Amended by Ord. No.
173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  The procedures for approval and appeal of
any land use determination pursuant to this section shall be by the City
Planning Commission as the initial decision-maker or the Council as the
appellate body.  The procedures for reviewing deciding on applications shall be
those in Section 12.24 B. through Q. of this Code.  A land use determination
made pursuant to this section shall be deemed a conditional use for and subject
to the provisions of Sections 12.24 U., 12.24 Z., and 12.24 AA. of this
Code.	F.	Existing Uses.  For any lot or portion thereof being lawfully used at
the time this section becomes effective, such use shall be deemed to be an
approved use for purposes of this section. Further, the conditions included in
any special district ordinance, exception or variance which authorizes such use
shall also continue in effect.	G.	Development, Change or Discontinuance of
Uses.	1.	Development of Site.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  On any lot or portion of a lot on which a use is permitted pursuant
to the provisions of this section, new buildings or structures may be erected,
enlargements may be made to existing buildings, and existing uses may be
extended on an approved site, provided plans are submitted to and approved by
the City Planning Commission.	The City Planning Commission may delegate to the
Director of Planning the authority to approve on behalf of the City Planning
Commission plans for the development of an approved use site.  If this
authority is delegated, the City Planning Commission shall establish reasonable
guidelines and policies to be followed in the exercise of this delegated
authority.  (Para. Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)	Any
person submitting development plans, or any other person aggrieved by a
determination of the Director or his duly authorized representative made
relative to the approval or disapproval of a development plan may appeal said
determination to the City Planning Commission. Such appeal shall be in writing
upon forms provided by the Department of City Planning. Such appeal shall set
forth specifically the basis of the appeal and the reasons why the determination
should be reversed or modified. Such appeal shall be filed within 15 days from
the date of mailing of the director’s determination.	2.	Reduction of Site. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  So long as the use
permitted by this section is continued, the entire approved site shall be
retained for that use, and no portion of the site shall be severed or utilized
for other purposes unless the plans for the reduced site are first submitted to
and approved by the City Planning Commission.	The determination of the City
Planning Commission on a proposed reduction of the area of an approved site
shall be subject to the same appeal as is provided for an application to
establish the use.  (Para. Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)	3.	Conditions of Approval.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00,
Oper. 7/1/00.)  In connection with the approval of use plans, the City Planning
Commission may impose conditions on the same basis as provided for in this
section for the establishment of new uses.	4.	Change of Use. No use approved
under this section may be changed to a different type of use unless the new use
is authorized in accordance with the procedure prescribed in this section for
the establishment of a use.	5.	Discontinuance of Use. If a use is abandoned, or
is discontinued for a period of one year, it may not thereafter be reestablished
unless authorized in accordance with the procedure  prescribed in this section
for the establishment of a use.	H.	Exception. Notwithstanding any provisions of
this section to the contrary, a lot is excepted from the provisions of this
section if the Director of Planning, pursuant to an application therefor, makes
the following findings:	1.	that the General Plan/Zoning Consistency Program has
been completed for the subject property;	2.	that the subject property is
designated on the applicable Community or District Plan land use map as Public,
Quasi-Public, Public/Quasi-Public Use, Other Public, or Open Space; that the
density, intensity (i.e., floor area), height and use of the proposed
development are permitted by and consistent with the designated use, density,
intensity, height set forth for all adjacent and surrounding properties on the
land use map of the applicable Community or District Plan, and as such
designations are further explained by any footnotes on the map and the text of
such Plan; and	3.	that the density, intensity (i.e., floor area), height and use
of the proposed development are permitted by and consistent with the designated
use, density, intensity, height set forth for all adjacent and surrounding
properties on the land use map of the applicable Community or District Plan, and
as such designations are further explained by any footnotes on the map and the
text of such Plan; and	4.	that at the time of the completion of the General
Plan/Zoning Consistency Program, the subject property was not owned or operated
by any federal, state, or local governmental agency.	The Director shall also
make a finding as to the use of the subject property at the time of the
completion of the General Plan/Zoning Consistency Program for the subject
property. If the Director finds that the property was vacant or undeveloped land
or was being used for any of the following uses, then the Director shall
disapprove the exception request:	(i)	Park;	(ii)	Recreation Site;	(iii)	School,
including College;	(iv)	Golf Course, or Club;	(v)	Natural Resource
Preserve;	(vi)	Public or Private Beach;	(vii)	Lake, Waterway, Reservoir; Debris
Basin, or Similar Facilities;	(viii)	Freeway rights-of-way;	(ix)	Street ;
or	(x)	Public Utility rights-of-way (not including railroad 
rights-of-way).	I.	Map Symbol.  A pound symbol, “#”, or other appropriate
designation, may be placed on the Zoning Map at the conclusion of the General
Plan/Zoning Consistency Program for a Community or District Plan area. A pound
symbol on the Zoning Map indicates that the Director of Planning has determined
the properties so marked are designated by the land use map of the applicable
Community or District Plan, for Public, Quasi–Public, Public/Quasi–Public
Use, Other Public, or Open Space use. A pound symbol may also indicate that the
Director has determined the properties so marked are shown on such District or
Community Plan maps as being lakes, waterways, reservoirs, debris basins, or
similar facilities, or as the location of a freeway right-of-way.	The purpose of
this symbol is to provide assistance to the public and appropriate City agencies
in the administration of this section. It does not change the zoning
classification of the parcel.	However, if the Director determines that a pound
symbol has been placed on the Zoning Map as a result of an error, then he shall
make a written finding to that effect and authorize such correction to the map
as may be necessary. The fact that a property or use comes within an exception
under Subsection B. of this section does not require the removal of a pound
symbol from the Zoning Map.	A property which is designated on a District or
Community Plan in a manner which causes it to be subject to the provisions of
this section shall be governed by this section whether or not the Zoning Map
bears a pound symbol for that property.
