                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SAFER SEX. (§ 12.22.1)

  SAFER SEX.
	(Added by Ord. No. 181,989, Eff. 3/5/12.)	(A)	Short Title. This ordinance shall
be known as the City of Los Angeles In The Adult Film Industry Act.	(B)	Use of
Condoms In The Making of Adult Films.	(1)	An “adult film” is defined as any
film, video, multimedia or other representation of sexual intercourse in which
performers actually engage in oral, vaginal, or anal penetration, including but
not limited to penetration by a penis, finger, or inanimate object; oral contact
with the anus or genitals of another performer; and/or any other activity that
may result in the transmission of blood and/or any other potentially infectious
materials as defined in California Code of Regulations, Title 8, Section
5193(b).	(2)	“Producer of adult film” is defined as any person or entity
directly engaged in the creation of adult films.	(3)	“Filmed” and
“filming” refer to the recording of any adult film, regardless of
media.	(4)	All producers of adult films issued permits under the authority of
the City of Los Angeles or the Los Angeles Police Department pursuant to Section
12.22 A.13. of this Code or any other law authorizing the issuance of permits
for commercial filming are required to maintain engineering and work practice
controls sufficient to protect employees from exposure to blood and/or any other
potentially infectious materials controls consistent with California Code of
Regulations, Title 8, Section 5193.  Engineering and work practice controls
include, but are not limited to:	(a)	Simulation of sex acts using acting,
production and post-production techniques;	(b)	Ejaculation outside workers’
bodies;	(c)	Provision of and required use of condoms whenever acts of vaginal or
anal sex are performed during the production of an adult film; and	(d)	The
provision of condom-safe water-based or silicone-based lubricants to facilitate
the use of condoms.	(5)	Any film permit issued under the authority of the City
of Los Angeles or the Los Angeles Police Department pursuant to Section 12.22
A.13. of this Code or any other law authorizing the issuance of permits for
commercial filming for the production of an adult film must expressly condition
said permit on compliance with subsection (4) of this section.  Any such permit
shall contain the following language: “Permittee must abide by all applicable
workplace health and safety regulations, including California Code of
Regulations Title 8, Section 5193, which mandates barrier protection, including
condoms, to shield performers from contact with blood or other potentially
infectious material during the production of films.”	(6)	The City shall
charge, or shall direct any other person or entity contracting with the City to
administer the film permitting process, to charge, entertainment industry
customers seeking permits for the production of adult films a fee sufficient to
allow periodic inspections to ensure compliance with the conditions set forth in
Section 12.22.1 (B)(4).
