                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SL OCEAN – SUBMERGED LAND ZONE. (§ 12.20.1)

  SL OCEAN – SUBMERGED LAND ZONE.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 142,081, Eff. 7/22/71.)	The following regulations shall
apply to the SL Ocean Submerged Land Zone:	A.	Nature, Scope and Purpose.  The
Los Angeles City seacoast and off  shore water and underwater areas constitute
a unique and important geographical and scenic resource, utilized for shipping,
industry, commerce, residence and recreation.	Offshore zoning and incidental
districts are a related and appropriate extension of city planning and zoning
principles and practices on land. Their basic purpose is to protect all users of
affected land from the recognized problems and depreciation brought about by
unregulated development. Particular purposes in Los Angeles include  (1) 
protection of the recreational, residential and scenic uses of coast areas, now
much in demand for these uses and with greater demand forecast for the future; 
(2)  preservation of the near seaward prospect of residential zones along the
coast, where this outlook constitutes part of the environment and value of
overlooking onshore properties and  (3)  provision for such other uses as
benefit the public and City without significant impairment of these recreational
and residential uses.	To permit new coastline or offshore developments of
conflicting type which are not essential to the public interest and could
jeopardize or downgrade existing recreational and residential users, would not
constitute proper consideration of public necessity, convenience, general
welfare and good zoning practice.	To realize the purposes enumerated above, in
accordance with established city planning principles, practice and supportive
zoning, certain general objectives must be met and certain specific requirements
are normally necessary for the constructive control of offshore activities,
whether achieved by zone change, variance, special district or
otherwise.	1.	There must be no chemical and biological contamination, visual
clouding or soiling of urban coastline, beaches or offshore waters by
industrial/commercial uses.	2.	Installations onshore, temporary or relatively
permanent, must be of such size, nature, location and spacing that they do not
significantly interfere with or adversely affect the residential and
recreational use, operation, environment or enjoyment of coastline and offshore
areas.	3.	The preservation of urban coastline and offshore areas, above and
below water level, in the natural state or for recreation and residence, should
take precedence if their function and enjoyment are threatened by additional
potentially conflicting offshore uses which are not clearly of greater public
necessity and interest.	4.	Any shoreline industrial/commercial uses should be of
limited and designated duration, with provision for complete removal of
installations and restoration of the prior or natural state after expiration of
the permissible time period, unless such removal and restoration are unnecessary
to maintain desirable recreational and residential environment.	5.	No
industrial/commercial operations should be undertaken where or when they may
cause significant alterations to the underlying geologic stability of other
areas, offshore and onshore, or otherwise bring about undesirable changes of
basic topographical condition.	6.	Piers, jetties, causeways, man-made islands,
bridges or other connective structures should be prohibited, except when they
enhance the recreational/residential environment.	7.	Emission of smoke, steam,
chemical, odor, sound, artificial light of other form of atmospheric pollutant
or environmental impairment from any seaside industrial/commercial installation
or facility should be controlled to fulfill the purposes of this zoning.	8.	No
provision of offshore urban zoning should conflict with state, federal or
international rights or control established by law within the same geographical
areas.	B.	Use.  No property of any kind shall be used except for the following
uses or when a Supplemental Use District is created by the provisions of Article
3 of this chapter, provided, however, that in no event shall any property be
used for surface-type operations (either above or below water level) relating to
oil drilling and production of oil, gas or hydrocarbons.	1.	Navigation	2.	The
following uses when conducted in accordance with the limitations hereafter
specified:	(a)	Types of Uses:	(1)	Commercial
Shipping;	(2)	Fishing;	(3)	Recreation;	(4)	Any use required by any trust or
legislative grant to the City of Los Angeles.	(b)	Limitations.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  No piers, jetties, man-made islands,
floating installations or the like are permitted in connection with any of the
above uses unless authorized under the provisions of Section 12.24U.
