                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

NONCONFORMING BUILDING AND USES. (§ 12.23)

  NONCONFORMING BUILDING AND USES.	A building or structure with a nonconforming
use and a nonconforming building or structure may be maintained, repaired or
structurally altered and a nonconforming use may be maintained provided the
building or use conformed to the requirements of the zone and any other land use
regulations at the time it was built or established, except as otherwise
provided in this section.  (Added by Ord. No. 178,599, Eff.
5/26/07.)	A.	Buildings with Nonconforming Area, Height or Yards.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 178,599, Eff. 5/26/07.)	1.	Buildings Nonconforming as to Area or Yard
Regulations.  A building, nonconforming as to area or yard regulations, may be
repaired, altered, or internally remodeled, provided at least 50 percent of the
perimeter length of the existing nonconforming portion of the exterior walls of
the building are retained.  It may be expanded in floor area provided the
expansion conforms to the requirements of this Code, subject to the following
provisions:	(a)	a building, nonconforming only as to yard regulations, may be
added to or enlarged in any manner provided:	(i)	any addition or enlargement
that is located in the required yard that is nonconforming does not encroach
into any portion of that required yard to a greater extent than the existing
nonconforming building encroaches; and	(ii)	in no event shall any addition or
enlargement reduce the width of a side yard or the depth of a front or rear yard
to less than 50 percent of that required by the current yard regulations of the
zone and other applicable current land use regulations; and	(iii)	the total of
all additions or enlargements, made since the building became nonconforming as
to yard regulations, which encroach into any required yard, shall not exceed in
height or length the height or length of that portion of the adjoining
nonconforming building that extends into the same required yard.	(b)	A
residential building, nonconforming as to the area regulations (density), in the
OS, A, R, P, PB, C or PF Zones, may be enlarged, provided that the enlargement
does not create any additional dwelling units or guest rooms.	(c)	A Building,
nonconforming as to the Residential Floor Area regulations on properties zoned
RA, RE, RS, and R1, not including properties in the Coastal Zone which are not
located in a Hillside Area, as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code, shall not
be added to or enlarged in any manner, except as may be approved or permitted
pursuant to a discretionary approval, as that term is defined in Section 16.05
B. of this Code.  However, alterations, other than additions or enlargements,
may be made provided that at least 50 percent of the perimeter length of the
contiguous exterior walls and 50 percent of the roof are retained.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 181,624, Eff. 5/9/11.)	2.	Buildings Nonconforming as to Height.  A
building, nonconforming only as to height regulations, may not be added to or
enlarged in any manner, unless the additions or enlargements conform to all the
current regulations of the zone and other applicable current land use
regulations, provided that the total aggregate floor area included in all the
separate additions or enlargements shall not exceed 50 percent of the floor area
of the ground floor of the building or structure.	3.	Moving Nonconforming
Buildings.  A nonconforming building or structure may not be moved, in whole or
in part, to any other location on the lot unless every portion of the building
or structure that is moved is made to conform to all the current regulations of
the zone and other applicable current land use regulations, except as otherwise
permitted by Section 12.22 C.13. of this Code.	4.	Restoration of Damaged
Nonconforming Buildings.	(a)	A nonconforming building or structure, which is
damaged or partially destroyed by any fire, flood, wind, earthquake or other
calamity or the public enemy, may be restored and the occupancy or use of the
building, structure or part of the building or structure, which existed at the
time of the damage or destruction, may be continued or resumed, provided that
the total cost of restoration does not exceed 75 percent of the replacement
value of the building or structure at the time of the damage or destruction.  A
permit for restoration shall be obtained within a period of two years from the
date of the damage or destruction.  Except as set forth in Paragraph (b) below,
if the damage or destruction exceeds 75 percent of the replacement value of the
nonconforming building or structure at the time of the damage or destruction, no
repairs or restoration shall be made unless every portion of the building or
structure is made to conform to all regulations for new buildings in the zone in
which it is located, and other applicable current land use regulations.	(b)	If
the damage or destruction of a nonconforming single-family or two-family
dwelling, multiple dwelling or apartment house in the OS, A, R, P, PB, C, M, or
PF Zones exceeds 75 percent of its replacement value at the time of the damage
or destruction, the building or structure may be reconstructed
provided:	(i)	that each side yard is no less than one-half the required side
yard for new buildings in the zone in which it is located, or in other
applicable current land use regulations, but in no event less than three feet;
and	(ii)	that the front and rear yards are at least one-half the required front
and rear yards for new buildings in the zone in which it is located, or in other
applicable current land use regulations; and	(iii)	that neither the footing, nor
the building or structure projects into any area planned for widening or
extension of existing or future streets as determined by the Advisory Agency
upon the recommendation of the City Engineer; and	(iv)	that the height shall not
exceed the allowable height for new buildings or structures in the zone in which
it is located, or in other applicable current land use regulations; and	(v)	that
a building permit for the reconstruction be obtained within two years of the
damage or destruction from fire, flood, wind, earthquake, or other calamity or
the public enemy.	5.	Replacement of Earthquake Hazardous Buildings. 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this article to the contrary, a building
nonconforming as to height, number of stories, lot area, loading space or
parking, which is demolished as a result of enforcement of the Earthquake Hazard
Reduction Ordinance (Article 1, Chapter IX of this Code), may be reconstructed
with the same nonconforming height, number of stories, lot area, loading space
or parking as the original building, provided, however, that reconstruction
shall be commenced within two years of obtaining a permit for demolition and
completed within two years of obtaining a permit for reconstruction.  Provided
further, that neither the footing, nor any portion of the replacement building
may encroach into any area planned for widening or extension of existing or
future streets as determined by the Advisory Agency upon the recommendation of
the City Engineer.	Additionally, a building nonconforming as to use or yards,
which is demolished as a result of enforcement of the Earthquake Hazard
Reduction Ordinance, may be reconstructed with the same nonconforming use or
yards provided that the approval of a Zoning Administrator is obtained pursuant
to Section 12.24 X.16. of this Code.	B.	Nonconforming Use of Buildings. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 178,599, Eff. 5/26/07.)	1.	Discontinuance of Manufacturing
Use in A and R Zones.  In the A and R Zones, any nonconforming use of a
building first permitted in the MR1 or less restrictive zone shall be
discontinued within five years from June 1, 1946, or five years from the date
the use becomes nonconforming, whichever date is later.	2.	Discontinuance of
Commercial Use in A and R Zones.  In the A and R Zones, any nonconforming
commercial use of a building shall be discontinued within five years from June
1, 1946, or five years from the date the use becomes nonconforming, whichever
date is later.  However, the Zoning Administrator may permit its continuation
pursuant to the procedures set forth in Section 12.24 X.27. of this
Code.	3.	Authority of Department of Building and Safety to Issue Orders to
Comply.  The Department of Building and Safety shall have the authority to
issue an order to comply to an owner of any building or structure who is in
violation of this subsection and advise the owner of the required discontinuance
of the nonconforming use of the building or structure.  Included in any order
shall be a provision advising the owner of the right to apply to the Department
of City Planning within 90 days for permission to continue the nonconforming use
of the building or structure as provided in this subsection, but the failure to
include that provision shall not nullify the order or provide a basis for the
continued use of the building or structure.  The Department of Building and
Safety shall record a notice of any order issued pursuant to this subsection
with the Office of the Los Angeles County Recorder, but the failure to so record
shall not nullify the order or provide a basis for the continued use of the
building or structure by any owner, purchaser or lessee who was not aware of the
order.	4.	Nonconforming Use in Manufacturing Zones.  In the M Zones: 	(a)	A
building, nonconforming as to use, which does not contain any dwelling units or
guest rooms, shall not be redesigned or rearranged to contain dwelling units or
guest rooms;	(b)	A building, nonconforming as to use, which contains dwelling
units or guest rooms shall not be redesigned or rearranged to be used for any
other purpose permitted in an R Zone;	(c)	A building, nonconforming as to use,
which contains dwelling units or guest rooms, shall not be redesigned or
rearranged so as to increase the number of dwelling units or guest rooms in the
building;	(d)	Residential uses in the M3 Zone, except for caretakers quarters,
shall not be permitted to remain beyond five years from the date the use became
nonconforming.	5.	Expansion of Nonconforming Use.  Except as otherwise provided
in this subsection, a nonconforming use shall not be expanded into any other
portion of the building.	6.	Enlargement of Residential Portion of Buildings
Nonconforming as to Use.  The residential portion of a building, nonconforming
as to use in the OS, A, R, P, PB, C, or PF Zones, may be enlarged, provided that
the  enlargement does not create an additional dwelling unit or guest
room.	7.	Change of Use.	(a)	Any change of use of a building or a portion of a
building must conform to the current regulations of the zone and other
applicable current land use regulations.	(b)	However, in the R, C, or M Zones, a
nonconforming use may be changed to any use that is permitted in a more
restrictive zone than the current zone.  The sequence of these zones, the first
being the most restrictive and the last being the least restrictive, is as
follows:  OS, A1, A2, RA, RE, RS, R1, RU, RZ, RW1, R2, RD, RMP, RW2, R3, RAS3,
R4, RAS4, R5, CR, C1, C1.5, C4, C2, C5, CM, MR1, M1, MR2, M2, M3 and PF.  When
the use of a nonconforming building is changed to a use that is permitted in a
more restrictive zone, the nonconforming building shall not be occupied by a use
that is permitted only in a less restrictive zone.	8.	Parking.	(a)	Determination
of Required Parking.  All currently provided parking spaces shall be considered
as the required parking for an existing nonconforming use if the parking spaces
are less than or equal to the parking required by current
regulations.	(b)	Change of Use or Other Alterations.  For the purpose of
calculating the parking requirements for a change of use or other alterations,
which would require additional parking spaces per this Code, including, but not
limited to, additional dwelling units, seating capacity, beds for institutions
or guest rooms, existing parking must be maintained and additional parking
spaces shall be provided equal to the difference between the number of required
parking spaces for the existing use based on current parking regulations set
forth in this Code and not on the provisions of Paragraph (a) above, and the
number of required parking spaces for the new use or the new capacity created by
the alterations, also based on current parking regulations.	(c)	Additions to
Buildings or Structures.  The parking requirement for an addition or
enlargement to a building or structure that results in an increase in floor area
shall be as set forth in the current provisions of this Code.  No additional
parking spaces shall be required for the original portion of the building, as
determined by Paragraphs (a) and (b) of this subdivision, only for the
additional portion.	9.	Discontinuance of Use.  A building or structure or
portion or a building or structure, which contains a nonconforming use which is
discontinued for a continuous period of one year, shall only be occupied by a
use that conforms to the current use regulations of the zone and other
applicable current land use regulations.	C.	Nonconforming Use Of
Land	1.	Discontinuation of Nonconforming Use of Land.  (Amended by Ord. No.
178,599, Eff. 5/26/07.)	(a)	In the A, R or C Zones, a nonconforming use of land
shall be discontinued within five years from June 1, 1946, or from the date the
use becomes nonconforming, whichever date is later, in each of the following
cases:	(i)	where no buildings are utilized in connection with the
use;	(ii)	where the only buildings utilized are accessory or incidental to the
use;	(iii)	where the use is maintained in connection with a conforming
building.	(b)	A nonconforming use of land, which is accessory or incidental to
the nonconforming use of a building, shall be discontinued on the same date the
nonconforming use of the building is discontinued.	2.	Continuation of
Nonconforming Use of Land.  (Amended by Ord. No. 178,599, Eff. 5/26/07.) 
Except as provided in Subdivision 1. above, the nonconforming use of land may be
continued, subject to the following limitations:	(a)	that the use is not
expanded or extended in any way either on the same or adjoining land beyond the
limits of what was originally permitted; and	(b)	that the use is not changed,
except to a use that conforms to the current use regulations of the zone and
other applicable current land use regulations; and	(c)	in the MR or M1 Zone, the
use shall be completely enclosed within a building or within an area enclosed on
all sides with a solid wall or solid fence of a height sufficient to screen the
use from public view, but in no event less than six feet in height, within one
year from the date the use becomes nonconforming; and	(d)	if the use is
discontinued for a continuous period of one year, it shall not be
reestablished.	3.	Continuation of Signs.  Any existing nonconforming sign, as
defined in Section 91.6203 of this Code, may be continued, provided that no
structural, electrical or mechanical alterations are made to the sign except as
permitted in Section 91.6206 of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 178,599, Eff.
5/26/07.)	4.	Oil Wells.  (Amended by Ord. No. 160,874, Eff. 4/ 6/86.)	(a)	No
well for the production of oil, gas or other hydrocarbon substances, which is a
nonconforming use, shall be re-drilled or deepened.	(b)	All such wells,
including any incidental storage tanks and drilling or production equipment,
shall be completely removed within 20 years from June 1, 1946, or within 20
years from date such use became nonconforming, if said date was subsequent to
June 1, 1946; provided, however, a Zoning Administrator may, upon individual
application, allow such wells to continue to operate after said removal date, if
he determines that such continued operation would be reasonably compatible with
the surrounding area and in connection therewith may impose such conditions,
including time limitations, as he deems necessary to achieve such
compatibility.	(c)	Notwithstanding the above, in the Los Angeles City Oil Field
such wells may continue operation provided an application is filed with the
Office of Zoning Administration on or before November 1, 1986 and is
subsequently approved. Any well operator may reapply for Zoning Administrator
approval after November 1, 1986 provided the prior approval has not
expired.	5.	Commercial Animal Keeping – The nonconforming keeping, grazing,
breeding, raising or training of livestock, poultry, fowl, rabbits, chinchillas,
fish, frogs or similar animals for commercial purposes in the RA and R Zones,
shall be completely abandoned on or before July 1, 1976 or within 15 years from
the date such use became nonconforming. (Added by Ord. No. 122,543, Eff.
9/2/72.)	6.	Automobile Dismantling Yards, Junk Yards, and Related Uses. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)	(a)	Any of the uses to
which the provisions of Section 12.19A 4 of this article are applicable,
lawfully existing in the M2 Zone on November 29, 1968, shall be completely
removed from the zone within two years unless the use has been made to comply
with the limitations applicable to the use.  However, upon a showing that
substantial compliance with the limitations applicable to a particular use has
been effected, the Director of Planning may grant an extension of time to
complete the work necessary to effect full compliance.  No extension so granted
shall exceed one year in duration nor shall more than one extension be granted
with respect to any individual use.	(b)	Any of the uses to which the provisions
of Section 12.20A 6 are applicable, lawfully existing in the M3 Zone on November
29, 1968, shall be completely removed from the zone within two years unless the
use has been made to conform to the limitations applicable to the use. 
However, upon a showing that substantial compliance with the limitations
applicable to a particular use has been effected, the Zoning Administrator may
grant an extension of time to complete the work necessary to effect full
compliance.  The procedure for this extension shall be as set forth in Section
12.24 with the Zoning Administrator as the initial decision maker and the Area
Planning Commission as the appellate body.  No extension so granted shall
exceed one year in duration nor shall more than one extension be granted with
respect to any individual use.	(c)	The nonconforming use of land for the open
storage of materials and equipment, including used materials and equipment, may
be continued, but shall be subject to the following limitation: it shall be made
to conform to the provisions of this Code on the construction of walls or fences
for the open storage of such used materials and equipment within one year from
the date the use became nonconforming.  The phrase “used materials and
equipment” includes, but is not limited to, vehicles, boats, or airplanes
which are inoperable, wrecked, damaged or unlicensed, i.e., not currently
licensed by the Department of Motor Vehicles.	7.	Discontinuance of Nonconforming
Hostels and Transient Occupancy Residential Structures.  (Amended by Ord. No.
173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)	(a)	Any hostel or transient occupancy
residential structure to which the provisions of Sections 12.12.2A1(d),
12.13A1.5, and 12.13.5A11, of this article are applicable, existing in or within
500 feet of an A or R zone on May 8, 1992, shall be discontinued within 180 days
unless the use has been made to comply with the limitations applicable to that
use.  However, upon a showing that substantial compliance with the limitations
applicable to a particular use has been effected, the Zoning Administrator may
grant an extension of time to complete the work necessary to effect full
compliance.  No extension so granted shall exceed 90 days in duration nor shall
more than one extension be granted with respect to any individual use.  The
procedure for this extension shall be as set forth in Section 12.24 with the
Zoning Administrator as the initial decision maker and the Area Planning
Commission as the appellate body.	D.	Nonconforming Due To Changes – Whenever a
building or structure or a use of a building, structure or land becomes
nonconforming because of a change of zone or change in the regulations, and a
period of time is specified in this section for the removal of such non
conforming building, structure or use, said period of time shall be computed
from the effective date of such change.	This section merely provides for an
exception to other sections of the LAMC; it is not to be regarded as a part of
the definition of the offense created by other sections of the code and need not
be negatived by proof or pleading.
	People v. Webb, CR A 1762.	The existence of nonconforming uses does not
necessarily invalidate a zoning ordinance, and no vested right to violate an
ordinance may be acquired by continued violations.
	Lockard v. The City of Los Angeles, 33 Cal. 2d 453.
	Acker v. Baldwin, 18 Cal. 2d 341.	Uses for commercial purposes in district
zoned for residential purposes if subsequent to enactment of zoning ordinance,
confers no vested right for continuance thereof.
	Burke v. City of Los Angeles, 68 Cal. App. 2d 189.	A nonconforming use cannot
be enlarged.
	County of San Diego v. McClurken, 37 Cal. 2d 683.	A nonconforming use is
subject to the full exercise of the police power and may, like all other
activities, be subjected to all reasonable regulations.
	People v. Scheib, CR A 2457.	Under a zoning ordinance authorizing applications
to an administrative body for permission to put land to a nonconforming use, it
is not a denial of an owner’s constitutional right to equal protection of the
laws to discriminate against him by granting such application to some owners and
refusing a grant to him in the same district.
	Otis v. City of Los Angeles, 52 Cal. App. 2d 605.	E.	Use Of Nonconforming Lot.
A Nonconforming lot may be occupied by any use permitted in the zone in which it
is located except for those uses which require a width, area or other lot
dimension other than the minimum specified in the area requirements of said
zone. However, no more than two dwelling units shall be permitted on a lot with
an area less than 4,000 square feet, except on lots located in an RW Zone.
(Amended by Ord. No. 138,095, Eff. 4/19/69.)	F.	Equine Keeping – Nonconforming
Lot In “RA” Zone.  Equines may be kept and a stable may be erected or
maintained on any lot in an “RA” Zone, provided said lot had the area
required for the keeping of equines at the time the lot was established.
(Amended by Ord. No. 157,144, Eff. 11/22/82.)	G.	Equine – Nonconforming Uses
– Non-“K” Equinekeeping Lots.  Notwithstanding any other provisions of
this Code to the contrary, equine uses of the land on non-“K” District lots
shall be allowed to be continued if, after the legal establishment of the equine
use, a neighbor is granted a building permit to construct a dwelling unit within
the 75-foot required distance between an equine use and the neighbor’s
dwelling unit.  If, in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.24X5, the
Zoning Administrator grants permission for a neighbor’s dwelling to be
constructed closer than 35 feet from a legally existing equine enclosure, the
equine enclosure may be considered to be nonconforming if it is relocated not
closer than 35 feet from the habitable rooms attached to any dwelling.  The
nonconforming equine use shall be subject to the following limitations: 
(Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)	1.	The equine enclosure shall not
be closer than 35 feet to the habitable rooms of any dwelling unit.	2.	The
subject lot has been designated by an Equine License to stable at least one
licensed equine during the 12 months prior to the issuance of the building
permit for the neighbor’s dwelling unit.	3.	The equine enclosure shall not be
expanded, extended, or relocated in such a manner as to reduce the nonconforming
distance between the enclosure and the habitable rooms of the neighbor’s
dwelling unit.	4.	The nonconforming equine use shall be discontinued if, during
a successive 3–year period, no equine is licensed by the Department of Animal
Services to be stabled on the subject lot.  (“Department of Animal
Regulation” renamed “Department of Animal Services” by Ord. No. 174,735,
Eff. 9/13/02.)	H.	(Repealed by Ord. No. 171,740, Eff. 10/27/97.)	I.	Equine
Nonconforming Uses Adjacent to Residential Buildings.  Notwithstanding any
provisions of this Code to the contrary, if an equine use not in a “K”
District was legally established prior to November 22, 1982, that use shall be
allowed to continue, even though the City issued a building permit between
November 22, 1982 and July 1, 1986, to construct a residential building on an
adjacent lot within the 35-foot required distance between an equine use and the
habitable rooms of a residential building on the adjacent lot.  This provision
shall not apply to building permits authorized by the Zoning Administrator
pursuant to Section 12.24X5.  This nonconforming equine use shall be subject to
the following limitations:  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff.
10/10/00.)	1.	The subject lot has been designated by an Equine License to stable
at least one licensed equine during the 12 months prior to the issuance of the
building permit for the residential building on an adjacent lot.	2.	The equine
enclosure shall not be expanded, extended, or relocated in such a manner as to
reduce the nonconforming distance between the enclosure and the habitable rooms
of the residential building on an adjacent lot.	3.	The nonconforming equine use
shall be discontinued if, during a successive 3-year period, no equine is
licensed by the Department of Animal Services to be stabled on the subject
lot.  (“Department of Animal Regulation” renamed “Department of Animal
Services” by Ord. No. 174,735, Eff. 9/13/02.)	Nothing in this subsection
relieves any person from the obligation to comply with the requirements of any
county or state law.  (Para. Amended by Ord. No. 173,754, Eff. 3/5/01.)
