                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

TIME LIMITATIONS. (§ 12.25)

  TIME LIMITATIONS.
	(Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 182,106, Eff. 5/20/12.)	A.	Utilization
of Approvals.	1.	Expiration.  Any approval by the Zoning Administrator,
Director of Planning, an Area Planning Commission, or the City Planning
Commission as initial decision-makers, pursuant to the provisions of Chapter I
of this Code or any ordinance adopted pursuant to Chapter I of this Code, that
has not been utilized within three years of its effective date shall become null
and void.  When approvals are granted as part of a project requiring multiple
approvals, however, the expiration periods set forth in Section 12.36 of this
Code shall govern.	2.	Utilization.  An approval shall be considered utilized
when a valid permit from the Department of Building and Safety has been issued
and construction work has begun and been carried on diligently without
substantial suspension or abandonment of work.  An approval not requiring
permits for construction or alteration from the Department of Building and
Safety shall be considered utilized when operations of the use authorized by the
approval have commenced.	3.	Exceptions.  The following exceptions shall
apply:	a.	Religious and Institutional Uses.  Where a lot or lots have been
approved for use as a governmental enterprise, religious use, hospital,
educational institution or private school, including elementary and high
schools, no time limit to utilize the privileges shall apply provided that all
of the following conditions are met:	(1)	The property involved is acquired or
legal proceedings for its acquisition are commenced within one year of the
effective date of the decision approving the conditional use.	(2)	A sign is
immediately placed on the property indicating its ownership and the purpose to
which it is to be developed, as soon as legally possible after the effective
date of the decision approving the conditional use.  This sign shall have a
surface area of at least 20 square feet.	(3)	The sign is maintained on the
property and in good condition until the conditional use privileges are
utilized.	b.	Approvals With Effective Dates Between July 15, 2005, and December
31, 2010.  The expiration period of any approval by the Zoning Administrator,
Director of Planning, an Area Planning Commission, or the City Planning
Commission as initial decision-makers (as well as any approval by a Deputy
Advisory Agency acting in the capacity as a Zoning Administrator or as the
Director of Planning’s designee), pursuant to the provisions of Chapter I of
this Code or any ordinance adopted pursuant to Chapter I of this Code, shall
automatically be increased by 60 months if the effective date of approval was
July 15, 2005, through December 31, 2007; by 48 months if the effective date of
approval was January 1, 2008, through December 31, 2008; and 24 months if the
effective date of approval was January 1, 2009, through December 31, 2010,
provided that the Director makes a written finding that the prior discretionary
approval and the required environmental review considered significant aspects of
the approved project and that the existing environmental documentation under the
California Environmental Quality Act is adequate for the issuance of the
extension.  This one-time extension of time supersedes any previous extensions
of time granted pursuant to Ordinances Nos. 180,647 and/or 181,269.	B.	Planning
and Zoning Matters in Litigation.  The time limits set forth in Subsection A.
above shall not include any time period during which the approval or the
environmental clearance for the approval is challenged in court.	C.	California
Coastal Commission Approvals.  The time limits set forth in Subsection A. above
shall not include any time period during which the subdivider or applicant is
awaiting a land use approval from the California Coastal Commission.  The
subdivider or applicant shall submit a written request for a suspension of time
and a copy of the submitted California Coastal Commission application for such
approval to the Department of City Planning within ten days of filing the
application with the California Coastal Commission.  Suspensions of time shall
be automatically granted until the California Coastal Commission has rendered a
final decision on the application, including any appeal period.  The subdivider
or applicant shall submit a copy of the California Coastal Commission’s final
action to the Department of City Planning within ten days of the final decision.
