                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

INTERPRETATION – PURPOSE – CONFLICT. (§ 12.31)

  INTERPRETATION – PURPOSE – CONFLICT.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 141,821, Eff. 5/24/71.)	In interpreting and applying the
provisions of this chapter, they shall be held to be the minimum requirements
for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general
welfare. It is not intended by this chapter to interfere with or abrogate or
annul any easement, covenant or other agreement between parties. Where this
chapter imposes a greater restriction upon the use of buildings or land, or upon
the height of buildings, or requires larger open spaces than are imposed or
required by other ordinances, rules, regulations or by easements, covenants or
agreements, the provisions of this chapter shall control. Provided, that such
provisions shall not apply to any variance or exception granted prior to the
effective date of this article: (a) by ordinance pursuant to the provisions of
Ordinances Nos. 42,666 (N.S.), 66,750, 74,140 or Chapter I of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code, and which variance or exception has been utilized and not
repealed by Section 12.27-B, 6 of this chapter; (b) by determination of the
Administrator or Board pursuant to the provisions of Chapter I of said Code; and
(c) by determination of the former Board of City Planning Commissioners pursuant
to the provisions of Ordinance No. 74,145 or Chapter I of said Code. Provided,
further, that such provisions shall not be interpreted or construed as
interfering with the continuation of those existing specific uses which
heretofore were required by Ordinance to be located in the following special
districts:	(a)	Cemetery Districts – Ordinance No. 19,534
(N.S.);	(b)	Undertaking Districts – Ordinance No. 31,746 (N.S.);	(c)	Public
Camp Districts – Ordinance No. 44,434 (N.S.);	(d)	Mental Sanitarium Districts
– Ordinance No. 58,647; and	(e)	Rabbit and Poultry Slaughter House District
– Ordinance No. 65,050.	In no case, however, shall any of the above uses be
extended or expanded  onto property not so used at the time this article became
effective.
