                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEDICATION OF LAND OR PAYMENT FOR PARK AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES AS A
REQUIREMENT FOR A ZONE CHANGE FOR A MULTIPLE RESIDENTIAL USE IN ANY MULTIPLE
RESIDENTIAL OR COMMERCIAL ZONE. (§ 12.33)

  DEDICATION OF LAND OR PAYMENT FOR PARK AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES AS A
REQUIREMENT FOR A ZONE CHANGE FOR A MULTIPLE RESIDENTIAL USE IN ANY MULTIPLE
RESIDENTIAL OR COMMERCIAL ZONE. 
	(Added by Ord. No. 159,691, Eff. 3/31/85.)	A.	(Amended by Ord. No. 163,797,
Eff. 8/8/88.)  No zoning ordinance which permits a multiple residential use
shall immediately and finally rezone any property in any multiple residential or
commercial zone, no building permit shall issue for a development permitting
such a use and no such use may be made of property pursuant to such a change of
zone until a dedication of land has been made or assured or a payment in lieu
thereof made or guaranteed. The land dedicated or the payment received shall be
used for park or recreational purposes and shall be subject to the restrictions,
conditions, exemptions and credits of either Section 17.12 of this chapter for 5
or more dwelling units, or Section 17.58 of this chapter for 4 or fewer dwelling
units, whichever is applicable. Such required dedication or payment shall be in
an amount calculated in the same manner as provided in Section 17.12, and shall
be based upon the maximum number of dwelling units permitted by the requested
zone or upon the number of dwelling units which may be constructed under
restrictions imposed pursuant to Section 12.32J of this
chapter.	EXCEPTION:	Where the owner of property being rezoned proposes to
develop  land with less than the maximum number of dwelling units permitted for
the zone, and has executed and recorded in the Office of the County Recorder a
covenant running with the land, binding upon all future owners thereof, that
such land shall be developed with a specified number of dwelling units, the
Advisory Agency of the City Planning Department shall base the required
dedication or fee in lieu thereof upon that specific number of dwelling units.
Any covenant executed in accordance with this exception shall be approved by the
Advisory Agency prior to recordation.	The required dedication or payment shall
be in an amount calculated in the same manner as provided in Section 17.12, and
shall be based on the maximum number of dwelling units permitted by the
requested zone or upon the number of dwelling units which may be constructed
under restrictions imposed pursuant to Section 12.32G2.  (Sentence Amended by
Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)	B.	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,492,
Eff. 10/10/00.)  The Department of City Planning shall determine the amount of
land to be dedicated or the required payment to be made in lieu, and where
private facilities for park and recreational purposes are provided in a proposed
development, the Department shall determine the credit against the required
dedication or payment in accordance with the provisions of Section 17.12F after
receiving a recommendation from the Department of Recreation and Parks, and
shall inform the Department of Recreation and Parks and the property owner of
the determinations.  After receiving the dedication or the payment in lieu or
assurance of either, the Department of Recreation and Parks shall notify the
Department of City Planning of the receipt or assurance.  The “T” Tentative
classification shall also be subject to the provisions of Section 12.32G,
including the provisions relating to time periods or any extensions of those
time periods.	C.	The land so dedicated, of the payment received in lieu thereof,
shall be placed under the jurisdiction of the Department of Recreation and Parks
for park and recreational purposes and shall be subject to the restrictions,
conditions, exemptions and credits of either Section 17.12 or 17.58 of this
chapter, whichever is applicable.	D.	This section shall not be applicable to any
commercially zoned property in the “T” Tentative zone classification if 
the owner thereof executes and records a covenant running with the land and
binding on all future owners thereof that the property will never be developed
for a multiple residential use unless pursuant to the provisions of this
section, the required land is dedicated or the required payment in lieu thereof
is made for park or recreational purposes, said covenant to be approved by the
Department of Recreation and Parks. (Amended by Ord. No. 163,797, Eff. 8/8/88.)
