                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PROJECTS REQUIRING MULTIPLE APPROVALS.(CHARTER § 564). (§ 12.36)

  PROJECTS REQUIRING MULTIPLE APPROVALS.  (CHARTER § 564).
	(Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 182,106, Eff.
5/20/12.)	A.	Definitions.  The following definitions shall apply to this
Section:	Legislative Approval.  Any approval that requires an action by the
City Council, such as those as set forth in Sections 11.5.6, 11.5.7 G., 12.20.3
F., and 12.32 of this Code.	Quasi-judicial Approval.  Any approval for which
the initial decision becomes final unless appealed, such as those as set forth
in Sections 11.5.7 C. – F., H., 12.20.2, 12.20.2.1, 12.20.3 I. – L., 12.21
A.2., 12.21 G.3., 12.22 A.25., 12.24, 12.24.1, 12.26 K., 12.27, 12.28, 12.30 H.,
12.30 J., 12.32 H., 13.08 E., 14.00 B., 16.05, 16.50, and Article 8 of this
Code.	Subdivision Approval.  Any approval under the Division of Land
Regulations set forth in Article 7 of this Code.	B.	Filing Requirement.  If an
applicant files for a project that requires multiple Legislative and/or
Quasi-judicial Approvals, then the procedures set forth in this section shall
govern.  Applicants shall file applications at the same time for all approvals
reasonably related and necessary to complete the project.  The procedures and
time limits set forth in this Section shall only apply to multiple applications
filed concurrently, except that, prior to a public hearing, the Director may
require an applicant to amend an application for a project requiring multiple
approvals to ensure that all relevant approvals are reviewed
concurrently.	C.	Decision-makers.  Notwithstanding any provision of this Code
to the contrary, the following shall apply for projects requiring multiple
approvals.	1.	City Planning Commission.  If a project requires any approval or
recommendation separately decided by an Area Planning Commission, the Zoning
Administrator, and/or the Director, as the initial decision-maker, and also
requires any approval or recommendation by the City Planning Commission as the
initial decision-maker, then the City Planning Commission shall have initial
decision-making authority for all of the approvals and/or
recommendations.	(a)	Procedures.  If all of the applications are for
Quasi-judicial Approvals, then the procedures for consideration and appeal of
all the applications shall be those set forth in Section 12.24 D. through Q. of
this Code.  However, if any Legislative Approval is included, then the
procedures for consideration and appeal of all the applications shall be those
set forth in Section 12.32 B. through D. of this Code.	(b)	Appellate Body.  The
City Council shall decide all appeals of the City Planning Commission’s
decisions or recommendations as the initial decision-maker on projects requiring
multiple approvals.	2.	Area Planning Commission.  If a project requires an
approval separately decided by the Zoning Administrator and/or the Director, as
the initial decision-maker, and also requires any approval or recommendation by
an Area Planning Commission as the initial decision-maker, then the Area
Planning Commission where the project is located shall have initial
decision-making authority for all of the approvals and
recommendations.	(a)	Procedures.  If all of the applications are for
Quasi-judicial Approvals, then the procedures for consideration and appeal of
all the applications shall be those set forth in Section 12.24 D. through Q. of
this Code.  If, however, any Legislative Approval is included, then the
procedures for consideration and appeal of all the approvals shall be those set
forth in Section 12.32 B. through D. of this Code.	(b)	Appellate Body.  The
City Council shall decide all appeals of the Area Planning Commission’s
decisions or recommendations as initial decision-maker for projects requiring
multiple approvals.	3.	Zoning Administrator.  If a project requires approvals
separately decided by the Zoning Administrator and the Director, as the initial
decision-maker, then the Zoning Administrator shall have initial decision-making
authority for all of the approvals.	(a)	Procedures.  The procedures for
consideration and appeal of all related applications for Quasi-Judicial
Approvals of the Zoning Administrator as initial decision-maker shall be those
set forth in Section 12.24 D. through Q. of this Code.	(b)	Appellate Body.  The
Area Planning Commission where the project is located shall decide all appeals
of decisions of the Zoning Administrator as initial decision-maker on projects
requiring multiple approvals.  If, however, regulations within Chapter I of
this Code require any of the approvals to be heard by the City Planning
Commission on appeal, the City Planning Commission shall decide all appeals of
decisions of the Zoning Administrator as initial decision-maker.	4.	Director of
Planning.  If a project requires multiple approvals decided by the Director as
the initial decision maker, the following shall apply.	(a)	Procedures.  The
procedures for consideration and appeal of all related applications for
Quasi-Judicial Approvals of the Director as initial decision-maker shall be
those set forth in Section 16.05 G. through H. of this Code.	(b)	Appellate
Body.  The Area Planning Commission where the project is located shall decide
all appeals of decisions of the Director as initial decision-maker on projects
requiring multiple approvals.  If, however, regulations within Chapter I of
this Code require any of the approvals to be heard by the City Planning
Commission on appeal, the City Planning Commission shall decide all appeals of
decisions of the Director as initial decision-maker.	5.	Advisory Agency.  If a
project requiring multiple approvals also requires a Subdivision Approval by the
Advisory Agency, that Subdivision Approval and any appeals shall be decided and
governed by the rules set forth in Article 7 of Chapter 1 of this Code. 
Hearings for and consideration of appeals of Subdivision Approvals by the
Advisory Agency shall be scheduled for the same time as any hearing and decision
by the Area Planning Commission or City Planning Commission, whichever has
jurisdiction over the other approvals.  Any time limit within which the Area
Planning Commission or City Planning Commission must act on the applications
before it shall be automatically extended as necessary to allow the Area
Planning Commission or City Planning Commission to hear and decide appeals of
Subdivision Approvals at the same time as it serves as the initial decision
maker for the other approvals.	D.	Findings.  When acting on multiple
applications for a project, the initial decision-maker or appellate body shall
separately make all required findings for each application.  When appropriate,
the initial decision-maker or appellate body may make findings by reference to
findings made for another application involving the same project.	E.	No New
Appeal Rights.  This section does not create any additional appeal or level of
appeal in connection with any land use approval.  This section also does not
limit or expand who may file an appeal as identified in each discretionary land
use application process.	F.	Extension Of Time To Act.  Notwithstanding any
other provision of the Code to the contrary, an extension of time to act on
applications or initiations under the multiple approval provisions may be agreed
upon between the applicant and the decision-maker or the appellate
body.	G.	Expiration.  Notwithstanding any other provision of the
Code:	1.	Quasi-judicial Approvals granted in conjunction with Legislative
Approvals pursuant to these multiple entitlement procedures shall expire with
the Legislative Approval, not to exceed six years unless a greater time results
from the application of Section 12.25.	2.	Quasi-judicial Approvals granted in
conjunction with a Subdivision Approval pursuant to these multiple entitlement
procedures shall expire with the Subdivision Approval pursuant to Article 7 of
this Code.  If the expiration date on a Subdivision Approval is extended
pursuant to Article 7 of this Code, or by amendment to the Subdivision Map Act,
the Quasi-judicial Approval shall also be automatically extended for a
commensurate period of time.	3.	Legislative Approvals granted in conjunction
with a Subdivision Approval pursuant to these multiple entitlement procedures
may be extended for the full time limit of the Subdivision Approval, including
time extensions pursuant to Article 7 of this Code, for the purpose of
recordation of an approved map.
