                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

BOUNDARIES OF ZONES. (§ 12.30)

  BOUNDARIES OF ZONES.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)	A.	Purpose.  It is
intended that zone and height district boundaries coincide with street, alley,
or lot lines, unless otherwise shown on the zoning map.  However, under certain
conditions, zone boundaries do not precisely coincide with street, alley, or lot
lines and in those cases, the Director shall make adjustments pursuant to this
section.  Boundary adjustments are normally requested in contemplation of more
extensive development of the property involved.  In connection with those
plans, standard street dedication is essential.  Therefore, the following
procedure is necessary to be established so that standard dedication and
improvement of streets and alleys abutting the subject property may be required,
where reasonable, as a prerequisite to the approval of the zone boundary
adjustment.	B.	Street, Alley or Lot Lines.  The zone boundaries shall be either
street, alley or lot lines unless otherwise shown on the zoning map, and where
the indicated boundaries on the zoning map are approximately street, alley or
lot lines, the street, alley or lot lines shall be construed to be the
boundaries of those zones.	C.	Scale on Map.  Where the zone boundary lines are
not approximately street alley or lot lines, or where property indicated on the
zoning map is acreage and not subdivided into lots and blocks, the zone boundary
lines on the zoning map shall be determined by the scale contained on the
map.	D.	Symbol for Zone.  Where one symbol is used on the zoning map to
indicate the zone classification of an area divided by an alley or alleys, that
symbol shall establish the classification of the whole of that area.	E.	Street
or Right of Way – Allocation or Division.  A street, alley, railroad or
railway right-of-way, watercourse, channel or body of water, included on the
zoning map shall, unless otherwise indicated, be included within the zones of
adjoining property on either side of the street, alley, railroad or railway
right-of-way, watercourse, channel or body of water; and where the street,
alley, right-of-way, watercourse, channel or body of water, serves as a boundary
between two or more different zones, a line midway in the street, alley,
right-of-way, watercourse, channel or body of water, and extending in the
general direction of its long dimension shall be considered the boundary between
zones.	F.	Vacated Street or Alley.  In the event a dedicated street or alley
shown on the zoning map is vacated by ordinance, the property formerly in the
street or alley shall be included within the zone of the adjoining property on
either side of the vacated street or alley.  In the event the street or alley
was a zone boundary between two or more different zones, the new zone boundary
shall be the former center line of the vacated street or alley.	G.	Individual
Adjustments.  The Director may, upon written request and after notice and
hearing to the owners of the property affected by the proposed decision, make
minor adjustments in the location of zone boundaries to carry out the intent of
this section when:	1.	Property as shown on the zoning map was in acreage but has
been subsequently divided or approved for division into parcels or lots and
blocks by a parcel map or final tract map and the parcel or lot and block
arrangement does not conform to that anticipated when the zone boundaries were
established;	2.	Property was redivided or approved for redivision by a parcel or
final tract map into a different arrangement of lots and blocks than indicated
on the zoning map; or	3.	A lot which was of record in the Los Angeles County
Recorder’s Office on July 30, 1962, and which was on that date and is, at the
time the request is made, in two different zones as determined by scaling the
zoning map and where there is nothing apparent on the map to indicate that the
zone boundary line should be retained in its scaled location.  Where
uncertainty exists in applying the provisions of this section or where revision
is necessary to correct dimensional or mapping errors the Director may, upon his
or her own initiative, or upon the request of the Planning Department staff,
determine the location of the zone boundary lines by written decision.  Zone
boundary adjustments permitted pursuant to this subsection shall be limited to a
distance of no more than 50 feet.  When the adjustment is requested prior to
recordation because of a situation arising as described in Subdivisions 1 and 2
of this subsection the Director’s decision shall not become effective until
after the parcel map or final tract map has been recorded with the Office of the
County Recorder.	H.	Director Decision.  Whenever the public necessity,
convenience, general welfare or good zoning practice justify the action, the
Director may approve, conditionally approve or deny any zone boundary
adjustment.  The Director may impose any conditions he or she deems appropriate
to mitigate the negative impacts created by the development made possible by a
zone boundary adjustment.  One of the conditions may require that the abutting
streets, alleys or highways be dedicated and improved in conformance with the
standards for improvement of streets, alleys and highways, if the Director
determines that traffic on the abutting streets, alleys or highways will be
increased or impeded as a result of the zone boundary adjustment.  However, an
offer to dedicate and/or filing of a bond in conformance with the procedures set
forth in Section 12.37C and D of this Code shall be construed as compliance with
these requirements.  The zoning map in the City Planning Department shall be
made to conform with the Director’s decision after the conditions imposed, if
any, by the Director have been fulfilled.	I.	Maps.  A reproducible map shall
accompany each application for boundary adjustments.  This map shall be legibly
drawn using a scale of 100 feet or 200 feet to the inch and in addition to data
the Director may require in order to make a proper decision on the request for
boundary adjustment, the map shall clearly show the following:	1.	The dimensions
and legal description of the parcel, the existing zone lines and the distance
from the parcel to the nearest cross street; and	2.	The abutting streets, alleys
and highways and their dedicated width.	J.	Height Districts.  The procedure
provided for in this section for the decisions on boundaries of zones shall also
be followed in deciding boundaries of height districts.	K.	Adjustment of C or M
and P or PB Zone Boundaries.	1.	Where a combination of C or M and P or PB Zones
has been established on a lot, the Director may, upon written request from the
owner of the property involved, adjust the boundary between the C or M Zone and
the P or PB Zone, provided that the C or M Zone is not increased in area and
that no portion of the C or M Zone is adjusted to within 50 feet of a street,
center line of an alley or an A or R Zone, except that the C or M Zone may be as
close to any particular street, alley center line or lot line in an A or R Zone
as it was prior to the adjustment of the boundary.  This exception shall not
apply to a lot or portion of a lot in the C or M Zone which is less than 250
square feet.	2.	Appeal – Form and Contents – Filing Fee.  An applicant or
any other person aggrieved by a decision of the Director of Planning made
relative to the boundaries of these zones, may appeal the decision to the Area
Planning Commission.  That appeal shall be in writing upon forms provided by
the Department of City Planning and shall be accompanied by a fee as set forth
in Section 19.01B.  The appeal shall set forth specifically the basis of the
appeal and the reasons why the decision should be reversed or modified.  The
appeal shall be filed within 15 days from the date of mailing of the
Director’s decision.
