                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

HIGHWAY AND COLLECTOR STREET DEDICATION AND IMPROVEMENT. (§ 12.37)

  HIGHWAY AND COLLECTOR STREET DEDICATION AND IMPROVEMENT.
	(Title amended by Ord. No. 150,799, Eff. 6/5/78.)	A.	Requirement.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 150,799, Eff. 6/5/78.)  No building or structure shall be erected or
enlarged, and no building permit shall be issued therefor, on any lot in any R3
or less restrictive zone (as such order of restrictiveness is set forth in
Subsection B of Section 12.23); or on any lot in the RD1.5, RD2 or RD3 Zones; if
such lot abuts a major or secondary highway or collector street unless the
one-half of the highway or collector street which is located on the same side of
the center of the highway or collector street as such lot has been dedicated and
improved for the full width of the lot so as to meet the standards for such
highway or collector street provided in Subsection H of this section; and
further provided that in the case of either a corner lot or an L-shaped interior
lot abutting a major or secondary highway and a local street which intersect,
that one-half of the local street, on the same side of the center of said local
street as such lot, has been dedicated and improved for that portion of said lot
or lots within 300 feet of the ultimate property line of said highway so as to
meet the standards for local streets provided in Subsection H of this section
and provide adequate right-turn ingress to and egress from the highway; or such
dedication and improvement has been assured to the satisfaction of the City
Engineer respectively. As used in this section, the center of the highway or
collector street shall mean the center of those highways or collector streets as
are shown on the Highways and Freeways maps of the Transportation Element of the
General Plan or, with respect to collector streets, on the adopted community
plans of the Land Use Element of the General Plan on file in the offices of the
Department of City Planning.  (Second Sentence Amended by Ord. No. 172,840,
Eff. 11/4/99.)	1.	The maximum area of land required to be so dedicated shall not
exceed 25% of the area of any such lot which was of record on March 1, 1962 in
the Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office. In no event  shall such dedication
reduce the lot below a width of 50 feet or an area of 5,000 square feet.	2.	No
such dedication for any highway, collector street or any other street shall be
required with respect to those portions of such a lot occupied by a legally
existing main building which is to remain.	3.	No additional improvement shall be
required on such a lot where complete roadway, curb, gutter and sidewalk
improvements exist  within the present dedication contiguous thereto.	4.	No
building or structure shall be erected on any such lot after March 1, 1962
within the dedication required by Subsection H of this section.	5.	(Added by
Ord. No. 173,217, Eff. 6/11/00.)  No such dedication for any highway, collector
street, or any street shall be required when the City Engineer, based on
guidelines established by the Streets Standards Committee, finds that any
additional dedication is not necessary to meet the mobility needs for the next
twenty years.	The guidelines developed by Streets Standards Committees shall be
consistent with the goals and purpose of the Transportation Element of the
General Plan as determined by the City Planning Commission.  These guidelines
shall also establish a procedure for notice to interested persons, including the
Councilmember of the district where the property is located.	B.	Exceptions. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 172,315, Eff. 12/31/98.)  The provisions of Subsection A.
of this section shall not apply to the following construction projects:	1.	One
single-family dwelling with customary accessory buildings when erected on a
vacant lot.	2.	Additions and accessory buildings incidental to a legally
existing residential building, provided no additional dwelling units or guest
rooms are created.	3.	Additions and accessory buildings incidental to a legally
existing non- residential building, provided that the total cumulative floor
area of all such additions and accessory buildings shall not exceed 500 square
feet.	C.	Dedication Procedure.	1.	Any person required to dedicate land by the
provisions of this section shall make an offer to dedicate, properly executed by
all parties of interest including beneficiaries in deeds of trust as shown by a
current preliminary title report prepared by a Title Company approved by the
City Engineer for that purpose. The trustee under a deed of trust shall not be
required to execute the dedicatory instrument, unless, in the view of the City
Engineer, such execution is necessary to satisfactorily dedicate the land. Such
report shall be furnished by the applicant. Such offer shall be on a form
approved by the City Attorney and the City Engineer; be in such terms as to be
binding on the owner, his heirs, assigns or successors in interest and shall
continue until the City Council accepts or rejects such offer or until one year
from the date such offer is filed with the City Engineer for processing,
whichever occurs first. The offer shall provide that the dedication will be
complete upon acceptance by the City Council. The offer shall be recorded by the
City Engineer in the Office of the County Recorder of Los Angeles County upon
its acceptance by the City Engineer. The City Engineer shall accept or reject
the offer for recordation within 10 days after it is filed with the City
Engineer. The offer shall thereafter be promptly processed by the City
Departments concerned and submitted to the City Council, in order to complete
the dedication within one year. If the offer is rejected by the City Council or
not processed within one year, the City Engineer shall issue a release from such
offer which shall be recorded in the Office of the County Recorder unless the
parties making the offer wish to have the time extended. (Amended by Ord. No.
152,425, Eff. 6/29/79, Oper. 7/1/79.)	D.	Improvement Procedure.	1.	Any person
required to make improvements by the provisions of this section shall either
make and complete the same to the satisfaction of the City Engineer or shall
file with the City Engineer a bond in such an amount as the City Engineer shall
estimate and determine to be necessary to complete all of the improvements
required.	2.	Such bond may be either a cash bond or a bond executed by a company
authorized to act as a surety in this State. The bond shall be payable to the
City and be conditioned upon the faithful performance of any and all work
required to be done, and that should such work not be done or completed within
the time specified, the City may at its option, cause the same to be done or
completed, and the parties executing the bond shall be firmly bound under a
continuing obligation for the payment of all necessary costs and expenses
incurred in the construction thereof. The bond shall be executed by the owner of
the lot as principal, and if a surety bond, shall also be executed by a
corporation authorized to act as a surety under the laws of the State of
California.	3.	Whenever the owner elects to deposit a cash bond, the City is
authorized, in the event of any default on his part, to use any or all of the
deposit money to cause all of the required work to be done or completed, and for
payment of all costs and expenses therefor. Any money remaining shall be
refunded to the owner.	4.	When a substantial portion of the required improvement
has been completed to the satisfaction of the City Engineer and the completion
of the remaining improvements is delayed due to conditions beyond the owner’s
control, the City Engineer may accept the completed portion and consent to a
proportionate reduction of the surety bond in an amount estimated and determined
by the City Engineer to be adequate to assure the completion of the required
improvements remaining to be made.	5.	Whenever a surety bond has been filed in
compliance with this section, the City is authorized, in the event of any
default on the part of the principal, to enforce collection, under such bond,
for any and all damages sustained by the City by reason of any failure on the
part of the principal faithfully and properly to do or complete the required
improvements, and in addition may cause all of the required work to be done or
completed, and the surety upon the bond shall be firmly bound for the payment of
all necessary costs thereof.	6.	The term of the bond shall begin on the date of
the deposit of cash or the filing of the surety bond, and shall end upon the
date of the completion to the satisfaction of the City Engineer of all
improvements required to be made. The fact of such completion shall be endorsed
by a statement thereof signed by the City Engineer, and the deposit shall be
returned to the owner, or the surety bond may be exonerated at any time
thereafter.	7.	For purposes of this section, improvement shall be considered as
satisfactorily assured when the City Engineer accepts the cash or surety bond
provided for herein or the improvements required to be made have been completed
to his satisfaction. When the City Engineer accepts the bond or the work has
been completed to his satisfaction he shall notify the Department of Building
and Safety thereof.	E.	Issuance Of Building Permits After Certification Of
Dedication And Improvement. When all dedication and improvements required by
this section have been completed or satisfactorily assured a building permit may
be issued.	F.	Fees.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,237, Eff. 9/28/12.)  In addition
to all other required fees, the following fees shall be charged for Bureau of
Engineering services provided for processing building permit applications
pursuant to the provisions of this Section:	1.	A nonrefundable fee of $530 for
every property requiring the City Engineer to investigate and determine whether
the provisions of this Section require a dedication of land or improvements to
land.	2.	A fee of $3,100 for processing real estate transfer documents for every
property for which the provisions of this Section require a dedication of
land.	3.	A nonrefundable fee of $250 for processing appeals of dedication
requirements pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 5. of Subsection A. of this
Section.	4.	A nonrefundable fee of $1,000 for processing appeals of improvement
requirements pursuant to the provisions of Subsection I. of this
Section.	G.	Lots Affected By Street Widening.  (Amended by Ord. No. 125,340,
Eff. 9/23/63.) On a lot which is affected by street widening required by the
provisions of this section all required yards, setbacks, parking area, loading
space and building locations for new buildings or structures or additions to
buildings or structures shall be measured and calculated from the new lot lines
being created by said widening; provided, however, that for the purpose of
establishing the required front yard depth on a frontage where the ultimate
street line has been determined under the provisions of this section, the depths
of all existing front yards may be measured from such ultimate street line
instead of the front lot line.	In applying all other provisions of this Article,
the area of such lot shall be considered as that which existed immediately prior
to such required street widening.	H.	Improvement Standards.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 150,799, Eff. 6/5/78.)	1.	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,217, Eff. 6/11/00.)  All
major and secondary highways and all collector streets shall be constructed and
improved in accordance with the standards adopted by the City Planning
Commission pursuant to LAMC 17.05 B. insofar as such is practical and will not
create an undue hardship.	Where major or secondary highways are designated by
the General Plan as divided highways, the width of the dividing strips shall not
be considered a part of the highway for the purpose of calculating either the
width of the dedication or the width of the improvement required by this
section.	2.	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,217, Eff. 6/11/00.)  All streets not
designated major or secondary highways or collector streets, but that intersect
said highways, shall be dedicated to a maximum width of sixty (60) feet. 
Roadway and parkway widths shall conform to those standards adopted by the City
Planning Commission in accordance with LAMC 17.05 B., depending upon street
classification type.  Whenever uncertainty exists as to the application of the
provisions of this section, or in instances of streets so classified as
requiring less than 60 feet of dedication in order to conform to the minimum
width standards as adopted in accordance with Section 17.05 B. of this Code, the
City Engineer shall make any necessary determinations.	3.	All improvements
required to be made by the provisions of this subsection shall be done in
accordance with the current applicable provisions of the Standard specifications
for Public Works Construction adopted by the City Council.	4.	The City Engineer
may approve and allow such variations from the aforesaid requirements as he
determines are made necessary by the conditions of the terrain and the existing
improvements contiguous to the property involved.	I.	Appeal.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 153,949, Eff. 7/19/80.)	1.	Any person required to make improvements pursuant
to the provisions of this Section may appeal to the City Council any City
Engineer decision made with respect to the enforcement or administration of the
provisions of this Section.  Such appeal shall be made in writing, shall state
in clear and concise language the grounds for the appeal, and the appellant must
pay a filing fee in the amount specified in Subdivision (d) of Subsection F. of
this Section to pay for City costs to process the appeal.  The Board of Public
Works, with the concurrence of the City Administrative Officer, shall regularly
determine the costs to the City to process such appeal, and shall include all
direct and indirect costs, including but not limited to inspection costs, and
labor, retirement and overhead costs.  The Board of Public Works shall use
these costs to identify a fee amount sufficient to recover City costs for
processing an appeal, and shall recommend to the City Council adoption of an
ordinance establishing a new appeal fee amount.  Such fee shall become
effective on the effective date of the ordinance.  (Amended by Ord. No.
181,699, Eff. 6/12/11.)	2.	The City Council may make such modifications in the
improvement requirements of this section or may grant such waivers or
modifications of the determinations which are appealed to it as it shall
determine are required to prevent any unreasonable hardship under the facts of
each case so long as each such modification or waiver is in conformity with the
general spirit and intent of the requirements of this section.	J.	City May Share
The Cost Of Making Unusual Improvements. Upon proper application to the City
Council and upon recommendation of the City Engineer, the City may accept and
provide for contribution toward the cost of making any improvement required by
the provisions of this section which the City Engineer determines will cost an
amount greatly in excess of the cost to other property owners who are required
to make improvements under the provisions of this section in the immediate
vicinity of the said improvement.	K.	City Engineer To Determine Street
Alignment. Whenever uncertainty exists as to the proper application of the
provisions of this section in the matter of street alignment, the City Engineer
shall determine their application in conformity with the spirit and intent of
this section. (Added by Ord. No. 125,340, Eff. 9/23/63.)	L.	Written Notification
To Permit Applicants Required.  When the City Engineer determines that the
provisions of this section are applicable to any building permit application, he
shall inform the permit applicant of his determination, of the specific
requirements of this Section which he determines to be applicable thereto and of
the availability and procedure for appeal of his determination to the City
Council. (Amended by Ord. No. 153,949, Eff. 7/19/80.)
