                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

LAND USE LEGISLATIVE ACTIONS. (§ 12.32)

  LAND USE LEGISLATIVE ACTIONS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)	A.	Initiation.  The
City Council, the City Planning Commission or the Director of Planning may
initiate consideration of a proposed land use ordinance.  Any initiation by the
Council or the City Planning Commission shall be by majority vote.  The Council
or the City Planning Commission shall forward the proposed ordinance to the
Director of Planning for a report and recommendation.	B.	Application.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 173,374, Eff. 8/3/00.)  An owner of property may apply for a
proposed land use ordinance if authorized to do so by Subsections F through S
relative to that owner’s property.  The applicant shall complete the
application for that proposed land use ordinance, pay the required fee and file
the application with the Department of City Planning on a form provided by the
Department.	C.	Action on the Initiation or Application.	1.	Authority.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  The City Planning Commission may
recommend approval or disapproval in whole or in part of an application for or
initiation of a proposed land use ordinance.  These recommendations shall be
made to the City Council for its action pursuant to the procedures set forth in
this section.	Except as set forth elsewhere in this section, the Area Planning
Commissions shall hear and make recommendations only on applications for or
initiations of a land use ordinance involving a proposed zone or height district
change, if the proposed zone or height district change involves:	(a)	Any
development project which creates or results in fewer than 50,000 gross square
feet of nonresidential floor area;	(b)	Any development project which creates or
results in fewer than 50 dwelling units, guest rooms or combination of dwelling
units or guest rooms; or	(c)	Any application without a proposed project
description, involving a lot with fewer than 65,000 square feet of lot area.	The
Area Planning Commission may recommend approval or disapproval in whole or in
part of an application for a land use ordinance where permitted in this
section.  These recommendations shall be made to the City Council for its
action pursuant to the procedures set forth in this section.	The City Planning
Commission shall hear all other applications or initiations of proposed land use
ordinances.  Notwithstanding the above, the City Planning Commission, rather
than the Area Planning Commission, shall have the authority to make
recommendations on any application for or initiation of a proposed land use
ordinance when it is being considered in conjunction with an initiated General
Plan amendment.	Unless otherwise specified, further references in this
subsection to “Planning Commission” shall mean either the Area Planning
Commission or the City Planning Commission, whichever has authority as set forth
above.	2.	Procedure for Initiated Changes.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,754, Eff.
3/5/01.)  The Director shall make a recommendation for action on the matter,
which recommendation shall then be heard by the Planning Commission.  Before
making a recommendation, the Director may direct a Hearing Officer to hold a
public hearing and make a report and recommendation.  After receipt of the
Director’s recommendation, the Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing
and make a report and recommendation to the Council regarding the relation of
the proposed land use ordinance to the General Plan and whether adoption of the
proposed land use ordinance will be in conformity with public necessity,
convenience, general welfare and good zoning practice.  If the matter was
initiated by either the City Planning Commission or the Director, and the City
Planning Commission recommends denial of the proposed land use ordinance, the
decision is final.  After the Planning Commission has made its report and
recommendation for approval, or after the time for it to act has expired, the
Council may consider the matter.	3.	Procedure for Applications.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 173,754, Eff. 3/5/01.)  Once a complete application is received, as
determined by the Director, the Commission shall hold a public hearing or direct
a Hearing Officer to hold the hearing.  If a Hearing Officer holds the public
hearing, he or she shall make a recommendation for action on the application. 
That recommendation shall then be heard by the Planning Commission, which may
hold a public hearing and shall make a report and recommendation regarding the
relation of the proposed land use ordinance to the General Plan and whether
adoption of the proposed land use ordinance will be in conformity with public
necessity, convenience, general welfare and good zoning practice.	After the
Planning Commission has made its report and recommendation, or after the time
for it to act has expired, the Council may consider the matter.  If the
Planning Commission recommends disapproval, that action is final unless the
applicant timely files an appeal pursuant to Subsection D below.	4.	Notice. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 173,754, Eff. 3/5/01.)  Notice of the time, place and
purpose of the public hearing shall be given in the following manner for land
use ordinances proposed by applications or initiations:	(a)	By at least one
publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the City, designated for
that purpose by the City Clerk, not less than 24 days prior to the date of the
hearing.	(b)	By mailing written notice at least 24 days prior to the date of the
hearing, to the applicant, to the owner or owners of the property involved and
to the owners of all property within and outside the City that is within 500
feet of the area proposed to be changed as shown upon the records of the City
Engineer or the records of the County Assessor.  Written notice shall also be
mailed to residential, commercial and industrial occupants of all property
within 500 feet of the exterior boundaries of the property involved.  This
requirement can be met by mailing the notice to “occupant”.  If this notice
provision will not result in notice being given to at least 20 different owners
of at least 20 different parcels of property other than the subject property,
then the 500-foot radius for notification shall be increased in increments of 50
feet until the required number of persons, and parcels of property are
encompassed within the expanded area.  Notification shall then be given to all
property owners and occupants within that area.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,595,
Eff. 4/10/11.)	(c)	If there is an applicant, by the applicant posting notice of
the public hearing in a conspicuous place on the property involved at least ten
days prior to the date of the public hearing.  If a hearing officer is
designated to conduct the public hearing then the applicant, in addition to
posting notice of the public hearing, shall also post notice of the initial
Commission meeting on the matter.  This notice shall be posted in a conspicuous
place on the property involved at least ten days prior to the date of the
meeting.	5.	Record and Reports from Commission Public Hearing.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 173,754, Eff. 3/5/01.)	(a)	Record.  The hearing proceedings shall be
recorded or summarized as directed by the Commission.  When proceedings are
recorded and not summarized, they shall be transcribed at the request of any
party or interested person upon payment of the fee, as required by ordinance. 
One copy of the transcript shall be furnished to the Commission to be placed in
the files.	(b)	Reports.  After the conclusion of a public hearing conducted by
the Director, he or she shall submit a report to the Commission within the
period of time fixed by the Commission.  The report shall set forth in writing
the Director’s conclusions and recommendations and the reasons for
them.	6.	Time for the Commission to Act.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,754, Eff.
3/5/01.)  The Planning Commission shall act within 75 days of the filing of a
complete, verified application for a proposed land use ordinance, except as
otherwise provided in this section.  This time limit may be extended by mutual
consent of the applicant and the Planning Commission.	The Planning Commission
may withhold action on an application relating to land located within an area in
which the City Planning Commission is conducting a general survey or study, for
a period of not more than 180 days from the date of filing of the application. 
Upon the Planning Commission’s decision to withhold action, notice of this
decision shall be sent forthwith to the applicant, advising of the study and the
postponement.	However, if the Director determines that a verified application is
inconsistent with the General Plan, then the Planning Commission, with the
consent of the applicant, may withhold action on the application for a period of
not more than 180 days from the closing date of the applicable application
filing period established in the schedule adopted pursuant to Section 11.5.8D of
this Code.  This time limit may be extended for two additional three month
periods by mutual consent of the applicant and the Planning Commission.	If the
land use ordinance was proposed by initiation rather than application, the
Planning Commission shall act within 75 days of receipt of the Director’s
report and recommendation.  If the Planning Commission does not act by that
deadline, or any extension, the Council may then, by resolution, request the
Planning Commission to forward the matter to it for the Council’s action.  If
the Council does not do so, the time for the Planning Commission to act shall
automatically be extended for an additional 75 days.  The Council may request
the Planning Commission forward the matter at any time within any 75 day
continuance period.	If the Planning Commission fails to act on an application or
an initiation within the time allowed by this section, the Planning Commission
shall be deemed to have approved the ordinance.	7.	Council.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 173,992, Eff. 7/6/01.)  The Council may approve or disapprove an
application or initiated proposed land use ordinance.  It shall approve an
ordinance only after making findings that its action is consistent with the
General Plan and is in conformity with public necessity, convenience, general
welfare and good zoning practice.  If the Planning Commission recommends
approval of an application, then the Council shall act within 90 days of receipt
of the Planning Commission recommendation.  The 90 day time limit to act on a
Planning Commission approval of an application may be extended by mutual consent
of the applicant and the Council.	D.	Appeal.	1.	Filing of an Appeal.  If the
Planning Commission recommends disapproval of an application, in whole or in
part, the applicant may appeal that decision to the Council by filing an appeal
with the Planning Commission that made the initial decision.  If no appeal is
filed, a denial is final.  An appeal shall be filed within 20 days of the date
of the mailing of the Planning Commission’s decision, on a form provided by
the Department, and shall set forth specifically the reasons for the appeal. 
Any appeal not filed within the 20-day period shall not be considered by the
Council.  Once an appeal is filed, the Planning Commission shall transmit the
appeal and its file to the City Clerk.  At any time prior to the action of the
Council on the appeal, the Department shall submit any supplementary, pertinent
information as the Council or its Committee may request.	2.	Appellate Decision
– Public Hearing and Notice.  Before the Council acts on the appeal, it shall
hold a public hearing.  The City Clerk shall set the matter for hearing, giving
notice by mail of the time, place and purpose of the hearing to the applicant
and to any interested party who has requested in writing to be so notified. 
The notice shall be mailed at least ten days prior to the hearing.	3.	Time for
Appellate Decision.  The Council shall make its decision within 75 days after
the expiration of the appeal period.  The 75 day time limit to act on an appeal
may be extended by mutual written consent of the applicant and the Council.  If
the Council fails to act within this time limit, the failure shall constitute a
denial of the application or disapproval of the initiated land use
ordinance.	E.	Amendment to the Zoning Regulations.  The procedures for
initiation and decision-making for amendments to Chapter 1 of this Code and
other zoning regulations shall be the same as provided for City Planning
Commission and Council initiated zone changes as set forth above, except that
the City Planning Commission shall be the designated Planning Commission for
these actions and proceedings for the amendment of the regulations need not
comply with the notice requirements in Subsection C 4, nor be set for public
hearing.	F.	Zone Changes and Height District Changes.  The procedures for
changes of zoning or height districts shall be as set forth in Subsections A
through D, with the following additional regulations:	1.	In the consideration of
an application for a proposed land use ordinance involving a change of zone, the
Planning Commission may approve or disapprove a change upon all or only a part
of the subject area.  The Planning Commission may recommend a change to any
zone between that existing on the property and that requested in the
application, as determined by the Planning Commission, or may recommend, on all
or a portion of the property, a change to a P or PB Zone, or may recommend that
an M Zone be changed to an MR Zone.  The Planning Commission may, without
additional notice or hearing, recommend minor additions to the area proposed for
rezoning or slight adjustments of proposed zone boundaries within that area,
when the Planning Commission determines that the public necessity, convenience,
general welfare or good zoning practice so require.	2.	Where the City initiates
changes of zone or height districts pursuant to California Government Code
Section 65860(d) to a significant number of lots, publication in two newspapers
of general circulation designated by the City Clerk for official advertising in
the area involved, not less than ten days prior to the date of the public
hearing, giving notice of its time, place and purpose shall be sufficient notice
of the hearing, and the mailing of individual notices shall not be
required.	G.	Special Zoning Classifications.	1.	T Classification.	(a)	Purpose. 
In the consideration of a proposed change of zone it may be determined that
public necessity, convenience and general welfare require that provision be made
for the orderly arrangement of the property concerned into lots and/or that
provision be made for adequate streets, drainage facilities, grading, sewers,
utilities, park and recreational facilities; and/or that provision be made for
payments of fees in lieu of dedications and/or that provision be made for other
dedications; and/or that provision be made for improvements; all in order that
the property concerned and the area within which it is located may be properly
developed in accordance with the different and additional uses to be permitted
within the zone to which the property is proposed for change.	(b)	T
Classification.  Instead of immediately and finally rezoning the property or
changing the height district, the ordinance shall place it in a T or Tentative
classification pending the recordation of a Final Map in compliance with the
provisions and requirements of Article 7 of this chapter, or, in certain
instances hereinafter specified by the recordation of a Parcel Map in compliance
with said provisions and requirements, or, where no map is necessary, by
completion or assurance of all dedications, payments, and improvements which are
required by the Council to be provided, to the satisfaction of the appropriate
City departments.  For the purposes of this Subsection, the term “payments”
shall include dedications or payments pursuant to Section 12.33 of this
Chapter.	(c)	Map Symbol.  The T or Tentative classification shall be indicated
by the symbol T in parentheses preceding the proposed zoning designation; for
example, (T)R4-2.	(d)	Allowed Uses.  While property remains in the T Tentative
classification, and until the Department of Building and Safety has received
notification from the Department of the recordation of the Final Map or Parcel
Map, or the completion or assurance of the required dedications, payments or
improvements, which are to the satisfaction of the appropriate City departments
in accordance with those conditions as have been imposed by the City Council,
the property may continue to be used only for the purposes permitted in the zone
applicable to the property prior to its T Tentative classification. No permits
shall be issued, no buildings or structures shall be erected or constructed, and
no land shall be used for any other purpose.  Provided, however, that grading
or other improvements which have been required as a prerequisite to the approval
of the Final Map or Parcel Map or other required dedications, payments and
improvements of the property may be accomplished.  The Council may also permit
the removal of the T Tentative classification by the recordation of a Parcel Map
or by completion of all required dedications, payments and improvements in lieu
of a Final Map after report and recommendations from the Director that all the
necessary improvements can be accomplished and assured under Parcel Map
procedures; or where no map is necessary, completion of all required
dedications, payments and improvements.	(e)	Time Limit.  Property shall remain
in the T Tentative classification until a Final Map or a Parcel Map of the
property has been approved by the Council and recorded in the County
Recorder’s Office, or until the Department has notified the Superintendent of
Building of the completion to the satisfaction of the appropriate City agencies
of all required dedications, payments and improvements, or until the
classification expires as provided in this subsection.  Unless otherwise
authorized by the City Council, dedications, payments and improvements must be
completed for the entire area subject to the change of zone.	(f)	Removal of T. 
When a Final Map or Parcel Map has been approved by the Council and recorded, or
the Superintendent of Building has been notified by the Department of the
completion of all required dedications, payments, and improvements, the 
property shall no longer be designated as being within the T Tentative
classification, the T Tentative designation shall be removed from City records,
and the new zone designation shall become finally effective. The Council may
authorize the removal of a T Tentative classification by any procedure which
assures any appropriate dedications, payments or improvements including any
dedication, payment or improvement described in Section 12.33 of this chapter. 
If the Tentative classification expires, the zone change and height district
proceedings shall terminate and the property shall be redesignated as described
in Paragraph (h) below.	(g)	Assurance of Dedications, Payments and
Improvements.  Prior to making a report and recommendation, the Director of
Planning or his authorized representative shall obtain a report from the Bureau
of Engineering as to whether all the necessary improvements can be accomplished
and assured under Parcel Map procedures, or, if no map is necessary, without a
map.  The report shall be made within 40 calendar days of the date of request
or within additional time as may be agreed upon by the Department and the Bureau
of Engineering.	(h)	Time Limit.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,106, Eff. 5/20/12.) 
Except as provided in Subdivision 2. of this subsection, as to those properties
placed in the T classification subsequent to March 26, 1973, property shall not
remain in a T Tentative classification for more than six years after the
effective date of the ordinance creating it without the recording of a Final
Tract Map or a Final Parcel Map, or a decision by the Department that all
required dedications, payments and improvements have been made or assured to the
satisfaction of the appropriate City agencies.	EXCEPTIONS:  Property may remain
in a T Tentative classification for an additional 60 months if the ordinance
creating the classification took effect between July 15, 2005, and December 31,
2007; an additional 48 months if the ordinance took effect between January 1,
2008, through December 31, 2008; and an additional 24 months if the ordinance
took effect between January 1, 2009, and December 31, 2010, provided that the
Director makes a written finding that the prior discretionary approval and the
required environmental review considered significant aspects of the approved
project and that the existing environmental documentation under the California
Environmental Quality Act is adequate for the issuance of the extension. 
Property may also remain in a T Tentative classification for a longer period of
time through operation of Section 12.36 I. of the Code.	When these time
limitations expire, the T Tentative Zone classification and the zoning
authorized thereby shall become null and void, the rezoning proceeding shall be
terminated, and the property thereafter may only be utilized for those purposes
permitted prior to the commencement of the rezoning proceedings and shall be so
redesignated.	(i)	Time limit Does Not Include Moratoria.  The time limit for
property placed in a T Tentative classification which is also the subject of a
Tentative Map shall not include any time during which a development moratorium,
as defined in California Government Code Section 66452.6(b), has been imposed
and is in existence after the effective date of the ordinance placing  the
property in a T Tentative classification, provided that  the moratorium
affects  the property and does not exceed five years.  Provided further that
for property placed in a T Tentative Classification which is also the subject of
a Tentative Map and which requires the expenditure of $125,000.00 or more to
construct, improve, or finance the construction or improvement of public
improvements outside the property boundaries of the Tentative Map, excluding
improvements of public rights-of-way which abut the boundary of the property to
be subdivided and which are reasonably related to the development of that
property, then the T Tentative Classification shall be extended for the life of
the Tentative Map.	(j)	Restoration to Former Zoning.  Except as provided for in
subdivision 2. of this subsection, as to those properties placed in the T
Tentative classification prior to March 26, 1973 and which remain in a T
Tentative classification for more than six years, the City Planning Commission,
the Director or the Director’s designee may investigate the circumstances
therefor.  When deemed appropriate by the Commission or upon the request of the
Council, and after due notice to the owner of the property as shown on the
records of the City Engineer or the records of the County Assessor, the City
Planning Commission, the Director or the Director’s designee shall submit a
report and recommendation to the Council concerning the restoration of the
property to its former zoning or height district classification. Where the
recommendation is that the property be changed to its former classification, or
when the Council requests that the property be changed to its former
classification, an ordinance accomplishing the change shall be transmitted with
the report and recommendation to the Council.  Notwithstanding any other
provisions of this Code to the contrary, no public hearing need be held nor
further notice given as a prerequisite to the adoption of an ordinance restoring
the property to its former classification.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,595, Eff.
4/10/11.)	(k)	General Plan Consistency.  In the implementation of Paragraph (i)
of this Subdivision, the former zoning or height district classification may be
inconsistent with the current General Plan designation for the property.  In
this case, the property shall be changed to the least intense zoning or height
district classification consistent with the General Plan.	2.	Q Qualified
Classification.	(a)	Purpose.  Except where property is being changed to the RA,
RE, RS or R1 Zone, provision may be made in a zoning ordinance that the property
not be utilized for all the uses ordinarily permitted in a particular zone
classification and/or that the development of the site shall conform to certain
specified standards, if the limitations are deemed necessary to:	(1)	Protect the
best interests of and assure a development more compatible with the surrounding
property or neighborhood;	(2)	Secure an appropriate development in harmony with
the objectives of the General Plan; or	(3)	Prevent or mitigate potential adverse
environmental effects of the zone change.	(b)	Q Classification.	(1)	Where
limitations are deemed necessary the zoning ordinance may, instead of
immediately and finally changing the zone or height district on the property,
place it in a Q Qualified classification.  Except as provided for in Paragraphs
(f) of (g) of this subdivision, the Q Qualified classification shall be deemed
to be a temporary classification until the time the proceedings are either
terminated or completed as provided in this section.	(2)	Prior to the issuance
of permits for the construction of buildings or structures authorized by the
Qualified enactment, the plans for them shall be submitted to and approved by
the Director as being in full compliance with all limitations and standards set
forth in the ordinance.	(c)	Map Symbol.  The Q classification shall be
indicated by the symbol Q in parentheses preceding the proposed designation; for
example, (Q)C2-1.	(d)	Allowed Uses.  While property remains in a Q Qualified
classification, whether temporary or permanent as provided for in Subdivision 3
of this subsection, it may be used for any of the uses permitted in the zone
applicable to the property prior to its Q Qualified classification, unless the
use or uses are prohibited in the zone classification to which the property is
being changed, or are subject to limitations as are specified in the Qualified
classification to which the property is being changed.  Prior to the issuance
of permits for the construction of buildings or structures authorized by reason
of the Qualified zone enactment, the plans therefor must be submitted to and
approved by the Director of Planning or by his designated representative as
being in full compliance with all limitations and standards set forth in that
ordinance.	(e)	Certificate of Occupancy.  Property shall remain in a temporary
(Q) Qualified classification for the period of time provided in Paragraph (f) of
this subsection or until a Certificate of Occupancy is issued by the
Superintendent of Building for one or more of the uses first permitted by the
Qualified zone ordinance.  The Superintendent of Building shall notify the
Director of the issuance of the Certificate of Occupancy.  Once the Certificate
of Occupancy is issued: (i) the (Q) Qualified classification shall no longer be
considered temporary; (ii) the parentheses shall be removed from the
designation; and (iii) the new zone designation shall become finally effective
and shall be placed on the appropriate City records with the symbol “Q”
being a permanent part of the symbol designation; for example QR3-1.  All
applicable limitations and/or standards within the Qualified classification
ordinance shall thereafter be considered to apply permanently to the specific
uses.  The temporary Qualified classification and the accompanying conditions
that have become permanent and are shown with brackets shall have the same
status as those that have become permanent, but shown with neither parenthesis
nor brackets.  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)	(f)	Time Limit. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 182,106, Eff. 5/20/12.)  Except as provided below and in
Subsection I., property shall not remain in a Q Qualified classification for
more than six years unless during that time:	(1)	there is substantial physical
development of the property to allow for one or more of the uses for which the Q
Qualified classification was adopted; or	(2)	if no physical development is
necessary, then the property is used for one or more of the purposes for which
the Q Qualified classification was adopted.	EXCEPTION:  Property may remain in
a Q Qualified classification for an additional 60 months if the ordinance
creating the classification took effect between July 15, 2005, and December 31,
2007; an additional 48 months if the ordinance took effect between January 1,
2008, through December 31, 2008; and an additional 24 months if the ordinance
took effect between January 1, 2009, and December 31, 2010, provided that the
Director makes a written finding that the prior discretionary approval and the
required environmental review considered significant aspects of the approved
project and that the existing environmental documentation under the California
Environmental Quality Act is adequate for the issuance of the extension.	When
these time limitations expire, the Q Qualified classification and the authority
contained therein shall become null and void, the rezoning proceedings shall be
terminated, and the property thereafter may only be utilized for those purposes
permitted prior to the commencement of the rezoning proceedings.	In addition,
the Director may determine that the development has not been continuously and
expeditiously carried on to completion, but that one or more usable units has
been completed and that the partial development will meet the requirements for
the utilization of the (Q) classification.  The Director may impose conditions
on the partial development to meet the intent of this subdivision.  The
Director shall advise the Department of Building and Safety of his or her
decision.  Thereafter, a Certificate of Occupancy may be issued after
compliance with the Director’s decision, and the temporary (Q) classification
shall be permanent on that portion of the property determined by the Director to
be appropriate to the completed portion of the development.  The Qualified
classification and the authority contained therein shall become null and void as
to the remainder of the property.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this
Code to the contrary, no public hearing need be held nor notice be given before
terminating the (Q) Qualified classification and restricting the property to its
previously permitted uses.	(g)	Non-Conforming Improvements.  In the event that
buildings or structures designed for occupancy by uses which were not permitted
prior to the (Q) Qualified classification are located on property on which the
(Q) Qualified classification is terminated, the buildings or structures shall be
completely removed forthwith by the owner at his or her own expense, unless
their design is altered and they are immediately completed in full compliance
with all applicable regulations for uses permitted prior to the (Q) Qualified
classification.	(h)	Q’s with T’s.  Property may simultaneously be
classified as being in a (Q) or [Q] Qualified classification and T Tentative
classification.  The T designation shall be removed prior to utilization of the
additional uses permitted by the (Q) or [Q] Qualified classification.  In no
event shall there be any change in the time limitations of this section or any
extension of them.	(i)	Time Limit Does Not Include Moratoria.  However, for
property placed in a Q Qualified classification which is also the subject of a
Tentative Map, the six year time period for the Q Qualified Classification shall
not include any time during which a development moratorium, as defined in
California Government Code Section 66452.6(f), has been imposed and is in
existence after the effective date of the ordinance placing the property in a Q
Qualified Classification, provided that the moratorium affects the property and
does not exceed five years.  Provided further that for property placed in a Q
Qualified Classification which is also the subject of a Tentative Map and which
requires the expenditure of $125,000.00 or more to construct, improve, or
finance the construction or improvement of public improvements outside the
property boundaries of the Tentative Map, excluding improvements of public
rights-of-way which abut the boundary of the property to be subdivided and which
are reasonably related to the development of that property, then the Q Qualified
classification shall be extended for the life of the Tentative Map, including
any time extensions approved by the Advisory Agency.  For the purposes of this
subsection, a zone change or height district change shall be deemed a change
incident to division of land when the project’s environmental analysis
includes a description of both the change and the division of land, and the
proposed development of the site does not deviate substantially from the
original project description.  In particular, the proposed development shall be
substantially the same regarding density, the number of dwelling units, the
amount of floor area, uses, height and massing of buildings, amount of grading,
and other relevant attributes.	(j)	Q Conditions in the RA, RE, RS and R1
Zones.  (Added by Ord. No. 174,406, Eff. 2/28/02.)  Notwithstanding Paragraph
(a) of this Subdivision, properties being changed to the RA, RE, RS and R1 zones
may be placed in the “Q” Qualified classification in order to impose
conditions to mitigate adverse environmental effects of the zone change
identified in a Mitigated Negative Declaration or Environmental Impact
Report.	3.	Permanent [Q] Qualified Classification.  In consideration of a
proposed change of zone or height district, the Council may determine to impose
a permanent Q Qualified classification rather than a classification which
expires.  The permanent Qualified classification shall be identified on the
Zoning Map by the symbol Q in brackets, preceding the proposed zoning
designation; for example, [Q]M2-1; or, in combination with a T Tentative
classification, [T][Q]C2-2.  There shall be no time limit on removal of the
brackets around the [Q] Qualified designation nor on removal of the T Tentative
designation.  After the conditions of the permanent [Q] Qualified
classification have been fulfilled, the brackets surrounding the Q symbol shall
be removed.  After the conditions of the T Tentative classification have been
fulfilled, the symbol [T] shall be removed from the zone designation.	4.	D
Development Limitations.	(a)	Purpose.  Notwithstanding any provisions of
Section 12.21.1 of this Code to the contrary, provisions may be made in an
ordinance establishing or changing any Height District that a building or
structure may be built to a specific maximum height or floor area ratio less
than that ordinarily permitted in the particular Height District classification;
or that buildings may cover only a fixed percentage of the area of the lot; or
that buildings be set back in addition to setbacks otherwise required by this
Code.  These limitations shall be known as D Development
limitations.	(b)	Findings.  In establishing D limitations, the Council shall
find that any or all the limitations are necessary:	(1)	to protect the best
interests of and assure a development more compatible with the surrounding
property or neighborhood, and	(2)	to secure an appropriate development in
harmony with the objectives of the General Plan, or	(3)	to prevent or mitigate
potentially adverse environmental effects of the Height District establishment
or change.	(c)	Map Designation.  The imposition of D Development limitations
shall be indicated by the symbol D following the Height District designated on
the Zone Map; for example, C2-1-L-D, R4-2-D, RD1.5-1-VL-D, etc.).	(d)	Permanence
of D Development Limitations.  D Development limitations shall not be affected
by any failure to remove a (T) Tentative classification or the parentheses of a
Q Qualified classification.	H.	Amendments of the T Classification and
Clarifications of the Q Classification or D Limitation.	1.	Application.  A
request for an amendment of Council’s instructions involving the T
Classification or a clarification of a Q Classification or D Limitation set
forth in an ordinance pursuant to Subsections C and G of this section may be
filed by one or more of the owners or lessees of the subject property with the
Department on a form accompanied by information required by the Department and
by a fee as provided in Section 19.01.	2.	Guidelines.  The City Planning
Commission shall adopt guidelines for the Director to utilize in considering
these requests.  The City Planning Commission may amend the guidelines from
time to time as it deems appropriate.	3.	Hearing.  Proceedings for an amendment
to Council instructions or a clarification need not be set for
hearing.	4.	Director’s Authority.	(a)	Approval of Request.  If the Director
decides that the request complies with the City Planning Commission’s
guidelines, then the Director may approve or conditionally approve a request
subject to the findings below.	(b)	Disapproval of Request.  If the Director
decides that the request does not comply with the City Planning Commission
guidelines for considering requests for amendments or clarifications, the
Director shall deny the request.  The decision of the Director that a request
does not comply with the City Planning Commission guidelines shall be
final.	5.	Findings.  The Director, or the City Council on appeal, shall approve
an amendment or clarification if the Director or the City Council finds
that:	(a)	The request is consistent with the City Planning Commission
guidelines; and	(b)	The amendment or clarification is necessary in order to
carry out the intent of the City Council in adopting the T or Q Classification
or D Limitation; and	(c)	The amendment or clarification would have only a
minimal effect on adjacent property and would not result in a significant or
substantial deprivation of the property rights of other property
owners.	6.	Notice of Decision.	(a)	Notice.  After making a decision pursuant to
this subsection, the Director or City Clerk, as appropriate, shall notify the
applicant in writing.  Written notice shall also be mailed to the owners of all
property within and outside of the City that is within 300 feet of the exterior
boundaries of the property involved, using for the purpose of notification the
last known name and address of  owners  shown upon the records of the City
Engineer or the records of the County Assessor.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,595,
Eff. 4/10/11.)	(b)	Expanded Notice.	(1)	If all property within the 300-foot
radius is under the same ownership as the property involved in the proceeding,
then the owners of all property which adjoins the ownership, or is separated
only by a street, alley, public right-of-way or other easement, shall also be
notified as provided in this subdivision.	(2)	If these notice provisions will
not result in notice being given to at least 20 different owners of at least 20
different parcels of property other than the subject property, then the 300-foot
radius for notification shall be increased in increments of 50 feet until the
required number of owners, and parcels of property, are encompassed within the
expanded area.  Notification shall then be given to all property owners within
that area.	7.	Effective Date of Decision.  A decision of the Director pursuant
to this subdivision shall become final and effective upon the close of the 20
day appeal period, if not appealed.	8.	Appeals of Director’s Decision. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  An applicant or any person
aggrieved by a decision of the Director may appeal that decision to the City
Council.  The appeal  shall be in writing and shall set forth specifically
where there is error or abuse of discretion in the decision by the Director
pursuant to this subdivision.  The appeal shall be filed with the Department of
City Planning and accompanied by a fee as provided in Section 19.01 of this
Code.  The City Council may approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove the
appeal if it finds there is error or abuse of discretion in the determination by
the Director.  If the Council makes this decision, it shall make written
findings pursuant to Subdivision 5 of this subsection.  The decision of the
City Council shall be final.	I.	Changes Incident to Divisions of
Land.	1.	Purpose.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  To provide
for the orderly arrangement of the property concerned into lots.	2.	Council
Authority.  In the subdivision of an area, it may be determined by the
Commission that the zones or height districts, as shown on the zoning map, do
not conform with the best subdivision and use of the land. The Council may, upon
the recommendation of the Commission, authorize within the boundaries of the
area being subdivided the appropriate adjustment of zone or height district
boundaries or the reclassification of the area into a more restrictive zone or
height district where the zone or height district is consistent with the General
Plan.  The Council shall have the authority to make changes without the
Commission holding a public hearing on the adjustment.	3.	Restriction on
Commission Authority.  The Commission shall make no  recommendation to the
Council pursuant to Subdivision 4 of this Subsection except upon written
application made by the owner of the land being subdivided.	4.	Procedure. 
Notice of a public hearing on any change of zone incident to division of land to
a less restrictive zone shall be included in the notice for the division.  The
notice shall conform to the procedures for zone change notification and the
subdivision and zone change hearings shall be held concurrently.  Appeal
procedures shall conform to those required for zone changes as set forth in this
section.	J.	F Funded Improvement Classification.	1.	Purpose.  In consideration
of a proposed change of zone, the Council may determine that public necessity,
convenience or general welfare indicate rezoning for an area is desirable, but
that street lighting and fire hydrants in the area are so lacking or inadequate
that provision for these facilities shall be made prior to the more intensive
use of the area contemplated by the zone change.	2.	Improvements.  If the
Council determines that provision should be made for street lighting, fire
hydrants, or both, it shall designate the improvements.  The ordinance changing
the zone of the property concerned may in addition to rezoning the property
place it in an F or Funded Improvement classification pending installation of
all designated street lighting and fire hydrants by the owners of the property,
or payment of a pro rata share of the cost of improvement as estimated by the
City Engineer.  Unless otherwise determined by the Council, the entire area
rezoned in each zone change case shall have its own separate Funded Improvement
Account.	3.	Map Symbol.  The F or Funded Improvement classification shall be
indicated by the symbol F in parentheses immediately before the combination of
symbols designation; for example, (F)R3-1.	4.	Issuance of Permits.  While the
property remains in an F Funded Improvement classification, and until the
Department of Building and Safety has received notification from the Board of
Public Works that the required improvements have been installed to the
satisfaction of the City Engineer, or that the pro rata share of the improvement
charge has been paid to the City, or that the improvements are assured by an
assessment district, the property may continue to be used only for the purposes
permitted in the zone applicable to the property prior to its F Funded
Improvement classification.  No permits shall be issued, no buildings or
structures shall be erected or constructed, and no land shall be used for any
other purpose.	5.	Funded Improvement Accounts.	(a)	Establishment.  Unless
otherwise determined by the Council, the Board of Public Works shall establish a
separate Funded Improvement Account for each zone change area placed in the F
Funded Improvement classification.  Each account shall be maintained until the
funds are expended to complete all the designated improvements in that the area,
or until the Board of Public Works determines the account is no longer
necessary.	(b)	Unit Charges.  The Board of Public Works shall establish one or
more standard unit charge, based upon front footage, acreage, or other equitable
measurements.  The charges shall be estimated by the City Engineer to be
sufficient to reimburse the City for its cost of installation, materials,
design, surveying, inspection, testing of materials, appurtenant work, and all
other applicable costs.  Unit charges may vary depending on geographic or other
special conditions.  Upon request, the City Engineer shall advise any property
owner of the total charge for the installation of the required improvements, and
the proportionate share of the charges for the property.  In the event a
property owner installs any of the improvements designated for the property, a
proportionate adjustment of the pro rata improvement charge shall be
made.	(c)	Earlier Improvements.  The Board of Public Works may authorize the
earlier installation of certain of the designated improvements which are more
urgently needed than the others when its Funded Improvement Account contains
sufficient funds to cover the cost of the improvements.	(d)	Completion of
Improvements.  When 60% of the total estimated improvement charges have been
collected in any Funded Improvement Account, the Board of Public Works may cause
the designated improvements for the area to be completed either by the City or
by contract, using monies from the revolving fund established by Paragraph (e)
below for the remainder of the costs, if sufficient amounts are available in
it.  Upon completion of all the designated improvements in a zone change area
placed in the F Funded Improvement classification, the Funded Improvement
Account for that area shall be terminated.	(e)	Revolving Fund.  There is hereby
established the Funded Improvement Revolving Fund to be administered by the
Board of Public Works, which shall be used to finance completion of improvements
in areas in the F Funded Improvement classification.  The  Council, after a
report from the Board of Public Works, may appropriate monies to the Fund.  The
Board of Public Works shall periodically report to the Council on the operation
of the Revolving Fund as well as any need for additional funds.  When a Funded
Improvement Account for a rezoned area has been terminated, all remaining pro
rata improvement charges due as a prerequisite to obtaining building permits
shall be paid into the Revolving Fund.	(f)	Removal of F Classification.  Each
parcel of property shall remain in the F Funded Improvement classification until
the owner has installed all designated improvements determined by the City
Engineer to pertain to the property, or has paid the improvement charges, or the
improvements have been completed or guaranteed under assessment proceedings, and
the Board of Public Works has notified the Department of Building and Safety. 
Thereafter, each parcel shall no longer be designated as being within the
classification and the F Funded Improvement designation shall be removed from
the City records.  A copy of the notification shall be furnished to the
Department.	K.	(Deleted by Ord. No. 182,242, Eff. 10/9/12.)	L.	(Deleted by Ord.
No. 182,242, Eff. 10/9/12.)	M.	Changes of Zone Relating to Projects Subject to
Section 12.24.1.  In connection with a change of zone subject to the provisions
of Section 12.24.1 of this Code, the ordinance changing the zone may provide
that one or more of the uses permitted by that ordinance shall be exempt from
the requirements of this Code.	N.	Changes Incident to Self-Contained
Communities.	1.	Agricultural Zones.  Where property is in an A1, A2 or RA Zone,
a proposed plan for the development of a new self-contained community with a
town lot subdivision design may be submitted to the Commission for its
consideration, provided the plan indicates that adequate provision is made for
school and playground sites, municipal facilities, utilities and other
services.	2.	Subdivision Map Required.  If the Commission finds that the
location and plan of the proposed community are tentatively acceptable, it shall
initiate the zone changes which may be necessary for the completion of the
plan.  After holding the public hearing required in connection with the
proposed zone changes, the Commission may approve the plan including the
proposed zone changes, but the approval shall be subject to the filing and
recordation of a subdivision map conforming to the plan.  If the self-contained
community plan and the proposed zone changes are approved by the Commission, the
plan and the proposed zone changes shall be submitted to the Council for its
consideration.  If the Council concurs in the action of the Commission, the
ordinance required to effect the changes shall be presented to the Council only
after a tentative subdivision map has been submitted to and approved by the
Council.	O.	Establishment or Change of H Hillside Areas.	1.	Procedure. 
Whenever the public necessity, convenience or general welfare justify the
action, the Council by ordinance may create or change the boundaries of an H
Hillside Area.  The fees to be paid and the procedure to be followed shall be
the same as prescribed in this section for a change of zone.  However, where
the establishment or change of an H Hillside Area is initiated by the Council or
the Commission and consists of a parcel or parcels of land totaling in excess of
20 acres, publication in a newspaper of general circulation, designated by the
City Clerk for official advertising in the area involved, not less than 24 days
prior to the date of the public hearing, giving notice of the time, place and
purpose of the hearing shall be sufficient notice of the hearing, and the
mailing of individual notices shall not be required.	2.	Exception.  Where the
Commission initiates a change of zone from the R1-H to the RE15-H zone on
property generally described in Subdivision 3 of this Subsection,  publication
in a newspaper of general circulation, designated by the City Clerk for official
advertising in the area involved, at least ten days prior to the date of the
public hearing, giving notice of the time, place and purpose of the hearing
shall be sufficient notice, and the mailing of individual notices shall not be
required.	3.	Boundaries.  Sunset Boulevard from Pacific Coast Highway to
Western Avenue, Western Avenue and its northerly extension to the common city
boundary line between Los Angeles City and the City of Glendale, westerly on the
City boundary line from the northerly extension of Western Avenue to Lankershim
Boulevard, southerly on Lankershim Boulevard to Ventura Boulevard, westerly on
Ventura Boulevard from Lankershim Boulevard to the westerly City boundary line,
southerly on the westerly City boundary line to Pacific Coast Highway, and
easterly on Pacific Coast Highway to Sunset Boulevard.	P.	Minor Changes to
Parking Requirements Incident to Legislative Actions.  As part of any
legislative land use ordinance, the Council may approve changes to the parking
requirements not to exceed 20% of the requirements otherwise required by the
Code.	Q.	Vesting Applications.	1.	Application.  Whenever a provision of the Los
Angeles Municipal Code requires the filing of an application for a zone change,
a vesting zone change may instead be filed, in accordance with these
provisions.  If an applicant does not seek the rights conferred by this
subsection, the filing of a vesting application shall not be required by the
City for the approval of any proposed zone change.	2.	Development
Rights.	(a)	The approval of a vesting application shall confer a vested right to
proceed with a development in substantial compliance with the rules,
regulations, ordinances, zones and officially adopted policies of the City of
Los Angeles in force on the date the application is deemed complete, and with
the conditions of approval imposed and specifically enumerated by the decision
maker in its action on the vesting application case.  These rights shall not
include exemption from other applications or approvals that may be necessary to
entitle a project to proceed (i.e., subdivision, parcel map, zone variance,
design review, etc.) and from subsequent changes in the Building and Safety and
Fire regulations contained in Chapters V and IX of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code found necessary by the City Council to protect the public health and safety
and which are applicable on a citywide basis and policies and standards relating
to those regulations or from citywide programs enacted after the application is
deemed complete to implement State or Federal mandates.	(b)	If the ordinances,
policies, or standards described in Paragraph 2(a) of this section are changed
subsequent to the approval or conditional approval of a vesting application
case, the applicant, or his or her successor or assignee, at any time prior to
the expiration of the vesting application case, may apply, pursuant to
Subdivision 4 of this subsection, for an amendment to the vesting application
case to secure a vested right to proceed with the changed ordinances, policies,
or standards.  An application shall clearly specify the changed ordinances,
policies, or standards for which the amendment is sought.	(c)	Prior to final
signoff on a building permit filed pursuant to a vesting application, the
Planning Department shall submit a copy of the final site plan to the office of
the affected council district for informational purposes
only.	3.	Procedures.	(a)	Vesting Zone Change.	(1)	Filing and Processing an
Application.  A vesting zone change shall be filed on the same form and have
the same contents, accompanying data and reports and shall be processed in the
same manner as procedures for applications in Subsection C 3 for a zone change,
except as provided here.  The application shall specify that the case is for a
vesting zone change.  If any rules, regulations, or ordinances in force at the
time of filing require any additional approvals (such as a variance or coastal
development permit), the complete application for these additional approvals
shall be filed prior to or simultaneously with the vesting zone change in order
for the City Planning Department to be able to schedule a concurrent hearing. 
In all vesting zone change cases a site plan and a rendering of the
architectural plan of the building envelope shall be submitted.  The plans and
renderings shall show the proposed project’s height, design, size and square
footage, number of units, the use and location of buildings, driveways, internal
vehicular circulation patterns, loading areas and docks, location of landscaped
areas, walls and fences, pedestrian and vehicular entrances, location of public
rights-of-way and any other information deemed necessary by the Director of
Planning.	(2)	Conditional Approval or Denial.  Notwithstanding Subdivision
2.(a) of this subsection, a vesting zone change may be conditioned or denied if
the City Planning Commission or the City Council determines:  (Amended by Ord.
No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)	(i)	that the condition is deemed necessary to
protect the best interest of and assure a development more compatible with the
surrounding property or neighborhood; to secure an appropriate development in
harmony with the objectives of the General Plan; to prevent or mitigate
potential adverse environmental affects of the zone change; or that public
necessity, convenience or general welfare require that provisions be made for
the orderly arrangement of the property concerned into lots and/or that
provisions be made for adequate streets, drainage facilities, grading, sewers,
utilities and other public dedications and improvements; or	(ii)	the zone change
is denied because it is not in substantial conformance with the purposes, intent
or provisions of the General Plan or is not in conformance with public
necessity, convenience, general welfare and good zoning practice and the reason
for not conforming with the plan.	If the Council does not adopt the
Commission’s findings and recommendations, the Council shall make its own
findings.	(3)	Expiration.  The approval or conditional approval of a vesting
zone change shall expire at the end of a six year time period.  Where a project
to be developed under a vesting zone change contains multiple phases, the vested
zoning shall terminate if less than 25 percent of the total project allowed by
the vesting zone change and as described in the vesting application has not
received a certificate of occupancy before the end of the period of time
specified.	4.	Amendment of Vested Project Plans or Amendment of Vested City
Regulations to Comply With Subsequent Regulation Changes.	(a)	One or more of the
owners or lessees of the subject property may file a verified application
requesting an amendment of the City regulations as described in Paragraph 2 (a)
of this section vested by a zone change issued pursuant to this section.  They
shall file the application with the Department of City Planning upon a form
designated for this purpose, and accompany it with a fee as provided in Section
19.01 A of this Code	(b)	The City Council, after a report and recommendation
from the Director of Planning or his or her authorized representative, may amend
the vested building or site plans or add to the set of City regulations to which
the applicant’s project has vested by a zone change issued pursuant to this
section.  The Department’s report shall be made within 40 calendar days of
the date of the request or within any additional time as may be mutually agreed
upon by the Department of City Planning and the applicant.	(c)	The City Council,
prior to making a decision pursuant to this paragraph shall hold a public
hearing.  Written notice shall be mailed to the owners or tenants of all
property within and outside of the City that is within 500 feet of the exterior
boundaries of the property involved.	R.	Building Lines.	1.	Purpose.  It is the
purpose of this article to provide regulations for the establishment, change or
removal of building lines along any street or portion of a street in order to
provide for the systematic execution of the General Plan; to obtain a minimum
uniform alignment from the street at which buildings, structures or improvements
may be built or maintained; to preserve the commonly accepted characteristics of
residential districts; to protect and implement the “Highways and Freeways
Element of the General Plan”; to provide sufficient open spaces for public and
private transportation; to facilitate adequate street improvements; to prevent
the spread of major fires and to facilitate the fighting of fires; and to
promote the public peace, health, safety, comfort, convenience, interest and
general welfare.	2.	Procedures for Establishment, Change or Removal of Building
Lines.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  Except for the
provisions below, the procedures set forth in Subsection C shall be used for the
establishment, change or removal of building lines.	(a)	Initial
Decision-Maker.  Area Planning Commissions shall have the authority to make
recommendations on building line ordinances.	(b)	Notice.  Notwithstanding the
notice requirements of Subsection C4, the following notice shall be required for
actions on building lines:	(1)	By Mailing Notices:  A written notice shall be
mailed at least 24 days prior to the date of the hearing to the applicant, to
the owner or owners of the property involved and to the owners of properties
abutting that portion of the street on which the building line is to be
established, changed or removed.  The written notice shall be mailed to the
last known name and address of the owners as shown upon the records of the City
Engineer or the records of the County Assessor; or  (Amended by Ord. No.
181,595, Eff. 4/10/11.)	(2)	By Posting Notices on the Street Affected:  The
Board of Public Works shall be notified whenever a public hearing on a building
line proceeding is set.  The Board shall cause copies of the notice of the
public hearings to be posted within 20 days after receiving the notification and
at least 24 days prior to the date set for public hearing. The Board shall post
at least three notices, not more than 300 feet apart, in front of each block or
part of a block along the street involved in the building line proceeding.	The
posted notice of public hearing shall conform to the following
requirements:	(i)	It shall be at least 10-1/2 inches × 11 inches in
size;	(ii)	It shall be titled “Notice of Public Hearing,” and the title
shall also state whether the purpose of the hearing is to establish, change or
remove a building line.  All letters in the title shall be at least one inch in
height;	(iii)	It shall include, in legible characters, the time and place of the
public hearing; and	(iv)	It shall include a diagram or other description of the
building line to be established, changed or removed.	(c)	Public Hearing for
Certain Building Line Actions.  Notwithstanding the provisions of Section C4,
no separate public hearings will be required for the establishment, change or
removal of a building line when it is incidental to subdivisions or zone changes
as specified in Paragraphs (e) and (f).	(d)	Action on Building Line Change. 
The procedures in Subsection C shall be used for establishment or change to a
building line.	(e)	Building Line Incident to Subdivision.  In connection with
the consideration of a tentative subdivision map by the Director of Planning, he
or she may recommend to the Area Planning Commission or the City Planning
Commission, whichever is considering the matter, the establishment, change or
removal of a building line on streets within the subdivision, if he or she finds
it is necessary for the proper development and use of the lots or to achieve any
purpose set forth in Subdivision 1 of this subsection.  The recommendation
shall be in the form of a written report.  Upon the receipt of the report, the
Commission shall advise the subdivider that the proposed building line matter
will be considered at a regular Commission meeting.  The meeting shall
constitute the required public hearing and no further notice need be given.  If
the Commission approves the establishment, change or removal of a building line,
an ordinance in conformity with that recommendation shall be presented to the
Council for adoption concurrently with its action on the final subdivision tract
map.	(f)	Building Line Incident to Zone Change.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,754,
Eff. 3/5/01.)  In connection with its hearing and consideration of a proposed
zone change, the Area Planning Commission or the City Planning Commission may
also consider the establishment, change or removal of a building line on the
property involved or on adjoining property under the same ownership as the
property involved in the zone change proceeding.  If the Commission finds that
it is necessary to establish, change, or remove a building line in order to give
proper effect to the zoning proposed in the proceeding, or to achieve any
purpose set forth in Subdivision 1 of this subsection, the Commission may act
upon the building line matter simultaneously with the zone change proposal. 
Only one notice of public hearing need be given concerning the proposed zone
change and the building line proceeding and both matters may be considered at
the one public hearing.  If the Commission approves the establishment, change
or removal of a building line, an ordinance in conformity with that
recommendation shall be presented to the City Council for adoption concurrently
with the ordinance involving the proposed zone change.	(g)	Notification to
Building and Safety.  The Department of Building and Safety shall be notified
relative to an initial City Council or Area Planning Commission approval of a
building line proceeding, and whenever the proceeding is terminated by the City
Council.	3.	Building Permits Shall Not Be Issued During Proceedings.  After the
approval of a building line proceeding by the Area Planning Commission or by the
Council upon an appeal from a disapproval, and until the time the ordinance
establishing, changing or removing a building line in the proceedings becomes
effective, or until the time the proceedings are terminated by the City Council,
no building permit shall be issued for the erection of any building, structure
or improvement between any proposed building line and the street line, and any
permits so issued shall be void.	4.	Compliance.  After the effective date of
any ordinance establishing a building line, no person shall build or maintain
any building, structure, wall, fence, hedge or other improvement within the
space between the street line and the building line so established, and the
Department of Building and Safety shall refuse to issue any permit for any
building, structure or improvement within that space.	5.	Exceptions –
Nonconforming Buildings.	(a)	Permitted Projections.  Any improvements or
projection permitted in a front yard, or in a side yard adjoining a street by
Section 12.22C20 of Article II, may extend or be located in the same manner in
the space between an established building line and the adjacent street line. 
Further, a marquee may extend into the space between an established building
line and the adjacent street line a distance of not more than 12 feet from the
face of the building to which it is attached, providing the building be lawfully
devoted to a business use.	(b)	Nonconforming Buildings.  A nonconforming
building, structure or improvement may be maintained except as otherwise
provided in Sections 12.23A and 12.23D.	(c)	Subsurface Improvements.  The
provisions of this article do not apply to buildings, structures or improvements
located below the natural or finished grade of a lot whichever is
lower.	(d)	Street Vacation.  Any building line existing along a public street
hereafter vacated shall be deemed automatically removed when the City Council
makes its order of vacation unless the order of vacation provides
otherwise.	(e)	Enforcement.  The provisions of Section 12.26 concerning
enforcement of the zoning regulations shall also apply to the enforcement of the
provisions of this article.	S.	Supplemental Use Districts.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 181,412, Eff. 1/2/11.)	1.	Purpose.  The purpose of Article 3 of this
chapter is to regulate and restrict the location of certain types of uses whose
requirements are difficult to anticipate and cannot adequately be provided for
in the “Comprehensive Zoning Plan”.  These uses, the boundaries of the
districts where they are permitted, the limitations governing their operations,
and the procedure for the establishment of new districts, are provided for in
Article 3 of this chapter.  Except for the “Supplemental Uses” permitted by
Article 3 of this chapter, all property within the districts hereby established
is subject to the provisions of the “Comprehensive Zoning
Plan”.	2.	Districts.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,242, Eff. 10/9/12.)  In order
to carry out the provisions of this article, the following districts are
established:	“O”		Oil Drilling District
	“S”		Animal Slaughtering District
	“G”		Surface Mining District
	“RPD”		Residential Planning Development District
	“K”		Equinekeeping District
	“CA”		Commercial and Artcraft District
	“POD”		Pedestrian Oriented District
	“CDO”		Community Design Overlay District
	“MU”		Mixed Use District
	“FH”		Fence Height District
	“SN”		Sign District
	“RFA”		Residential Floor Area District
	“NSO”		Neighborhood Stabilization Overlay District
	“CPIO”	Community Plan Implementation Overlay District
	“HS”		Hillside Standards Overlay District
	“MPR”		Modified Parking Requirement District	These districts and their
boundaries are shown on portions of the “Zoning Map” as provided for in
Section 12.04 and made a part thereof by a combination of the zone and district
symbols.  This map and the notations, references and other information shown on
it which pertain to the boundaries of these districts are made a part of this
article as if fully described here.  Reference is hereby made to those maps,
notations, references and other information for full
particulars.	3.	Establishment of Districts.	(a)	Requirements.  The procedure
for initiation or an application to establish, change the boundaries of or
repeal a supplemental use district shall be as set forth in this section with
the following additional requirements.	(b)	Additional Requirements for
Application.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,242, Eff. 10/9/12.)  Except for CPIO
Districts, which may not be established through the application procedure, one
or more of the owners or lessees of property within the boundaries of the
proposed district may submit a verified application for the establishment of a
district.  An application for the establishment of a Commercial and Artcraft
District, a Pedestrian Oriented District, an Equinekeeping District, a Community
Design Overlay District, a Mixed Use District, a Sign District, a Residential
Floor Area District, a Neighborhood Stabilization Overlay District, a Hillside
Standards Overlay District, or a Modified Parking Requirement District shall
contain the signatures of at least 75 percent of the owners or lessees of
property within the proposed district.  An application for the establishment of
a Fence Height District shall contain the signatures of at least 50 percent of
the owners or lessees of property within the proposed district.  An application
shall be accompanied by any information deemed necessary by the Department.	If
establishment of a district is initiated by the City Council, City Planning
Commission, or Director of Planning, the signatures of the property owners or
lessees shall not be required.	(c)	Action on the Initiation or
Application.	(1)	Authority.  Notwithstanding the provisions of Subsection C.,
only the City Planning Commission is authorized to make recommendations
regarding approval or disapproval in whole or in part on an application for or
the initiation of the establishment of a supplemental use district to the
Council.	(2)	Notice.  Notice of the public hearing shall also be given to the
Bureau of Engineering and Department of Transportation for an application or
initiation to establish a supplemental use district.	(3)	Time for Commission to
Act on Application.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,242, Eff. 10/9/12.)  The City
Planning Commission shall act on an application to establish an “O”,
“S”, “G”, “K”, “CA”, “POD”, “CDO”, “MU”, “FH”,
“SN”, “RFA”, “NSO”, “CPIO”, “HS”, or “MPR” District
within 75 days from the date of the filing of the application.  The City
Planning Commission shall act on an application to establish an “RPD”
District within 75 days from receipt of the Subdivision Committee report and
recommendation.  The City Planning Commission shall act on proceedings
initiated by the Council within 75 days of receipt of that action from the
Council, or within the time that the Council may otherwise
specify.	(4)	Disapproval – Appeal to Council.  If the City Planning
Commission recommends disapproval of an application, in whole or in part, any
owner or lessee of property included in a proposed district may appeal that
decision to the Council by filing an appeal with the City Planning Commission
pursuant to the procedure set forth in Subsection D. of this
section.	4.	Administrative Clearance – Director Authority for Sign
Off.	(a)	Administrative Clearance.  An Administrative Clearance is defined as a
ministerial approval for Projects that comply with all applicable Supplemental
Use District regulations.  The term “Project” shall be defined in any
Supplemental Use District that seeks to invoke this Administrative Clearance
procedure.	(b)	Application, Form and Contents.  To apply for an Administrative
Clearance, an applicant shall file an application with the Department of City
Planning, on a form provided by the Department, and include all information
required by the instructions on the application and any additional submission
requirements.	(c)	Procedures.  Applicants for Projects that comply with the
provisions of an adopted Commercial and Artcraft District, Pedestrian Oriented
District, Community Design Overlay District, Mixed Use District or Community
Plan Implementation Overlay District shall submit plans to the Director for an
Administrative Clearance.  The Director or his/her designee shall review the
Project for compliance with the applicable Supplemental Use District development
regulations.  Projects that do not qualify for Administrative Clearance shall
follow the procedures set forth in the applicable Supplemental Use District.
