                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

LANDSCAPE. (§ 12.42)

  LANDSCAPE.
	(Added by Ord. No. 170,978, Eff. 5/13/96, Oper. 7/13/96.)	A.	Conservation of
Energy.	1.	Purpose.  To contribute to mitigation of increasing urban
temperatures, thereby reducing the need for new power generating facilities, the
following regulations shall apply.	2.	Tree Planting.  (Amended by Ord. No.
173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  Applications for landscape approval shall
contain a proposal for shading of walls of structures in accordance with the
guidelines established by the City Planning Commission.	B.	Heat and Glare
Reduction.	1.	Purpose.  To contribute to the mitigation of increasing urban
temperatures, thereby reducing the need for new power generating facilities, to
reduce storm water runoff, and to increase ground water recharge, the following
regulations shall apply.	2.	Vehicular Use Areas.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268,
Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Code
to the contrary, applications for landscape approval shall contain a proposal
for heat and glare reduction in vehicular use areas in accordance with
guidelines established by the City Planning Commission.	C.	Air Quality
Enhancement.	1.	Purpose.  To ensure coordination between landscape and other
features of the urban environment and to contribute to the processes of oxygen
regeneration, clearing the air of harmful pollutants, and removal of air-borne
particulates, the following regulations shall apply.	2.	Procedure.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  Applications for landscape
approval shall contain a proposal for air quality enhancement, in accordance
with the guidelines established by the City Planning Commission.	D.	Soil and
Watershed Conservation.	1.	Purpose.  To conserve the unique character of the
City which is largely determined by its landforms; and to encourage the
restoration of such native areas as are unavoidably disturbed by development; to
conserve soil and accumulated organic litter and reduce erosion by utilization
of a variety of methods; and to increase residence time of precipitation in the
watershed, the following regulations shall apply.	2.	General
Requirements.	(a)	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.) 
The Department of Building and Safety shall not issue any building permits for a
Project where soil and watershed conservation techniques, as provided in this
section and in the guidelines established by the City Planning Commission, have
not been used, as determined by the Department of City Planning. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 1 of Chapter IX of this Code, all cut
and fill slopes in Hillside Areas determined under the provisions of that
article of this Code to be subject to erosion, shall be planted and irrigated
pursuant to the provisions of this subdivision.	(b)	All cut and fill slopes in
Hillside Areas shall be landform graded and landform planted to the maximum
extent feasible where such techniques do not affect the stability of the graded
slopes.  Where landform grading is unsuitable for the entire graded area,
portions of the graded area may be required by the Department of City Planning
to be landform graded and landform planted, consistent with public safety. 
Nothing in this paragraph shall prohibit the Department of Building and Safety
from enforcing the planting and irrigation provisions of the Grading Division of
Chapter IX of this Code.	(c)	The Director shall take measures to ensure that the
planting of slopes shall take into consideration such factors as degree of
slope, slope orientation, type of soil, rooting depth of plants, fire dangers,
availability of water, original native communities, depth of soil, and other
relevant design factors.	(d)	Non-native plants, when used, shall compliment
native communities in growth habit, foliage color, cultural requirements, and
flowering behavior.	3.	Required Vegetation.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff.
7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  Manufactured slopes shall be planted in accordance with
the guidelines established by the City Planning
Commission.	E.	Techniques.	1.	Turf Block.  Turf block, turf stone or similar
materials shall be considered non-planted areas, except in planted portions of
emergency access ways when permitted by the Fire Department.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 171,530, Eff. 4/4/97.)	2.	Coordination with Signs and Lighting.  All
planting shall be coordinated with all signs and lighting on the Project site,
both upon installation of the planting and upon the planting reaching its
maximum designed size.  All shall be designed such that one will not interfere
with the other, nor require excessive maintenance.	3.	Planting Techniques. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  All planting shall
be accomplished in accordance with the guidelines established by the City
Planning Commission.	F.	Walls.  All concrete or masonry walls shall have a
minimum nominal thickness of six inches unless designed to withstand lateral
force and constructed pursuant to plans approved by the Department of Building
and Safety.
