                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

LANDSCAPE – GENERAL REQUIREMENTS. (§ 12.40)

  LANDSCAPE – GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
	(Added by Ord. No. 170,978, Eff. 5/13/96, Oper. 7/13/96.)	A.	Purpose.	1.	To
bring greater order and certainty to the development process.	2.	To respond to
State-level mandates for action in such areas as water conservation, energy
conservation, enhancement of water quality, and amelioration of air
quality.	3.	To increase the amount and quality of appropriate landscaping
appurtenant to all land uses in the City.	4.	To establish a minimum level of
regulation that protects the public and at the same time allows for design
flexibility.	B.	Prohibitions.  Notwithstanding any provisions of Chapter 1 of
this Code to the contrary, the Department of Building and Safety shall not issue
any building, grading, or use of land permit for any Project unless the
Department of City Planning determines that the proposed landscaping will meet
the provisions of Sections 12.40 through 12.43 of this Code and has been assured
that any proposed landscaping will be installed.	C.	Exceptions.  The provisions
of Sections 12.40 through 12.43 of this Code shall not apply to:	1.	Any Project
involving replacement of an earthquake hazardous building demolished as a result
of an enforcement of the Earthquake Safety Ordinance (Division 88, Article 1,
Chapter IX of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.)	2.	Any Project for which a
building permit is required	(a)	in order to comply with an order issued by the
Department of Building and Safety to repair an unsafe or substandard condition,
or	(b)	in order to rebuild as a result of destruction by fire, earthquake, or
other natural disaster.	3.	Any Project regulated by Subparagraph (i) of Section
12.04.05 B 1 (a) of this Code.	4.	Any Project which has obtained a still-valid
discretionary land use approval from the City prior to the operative date of
this section, and which also required approval of landscape documents.	5.	Any
Project where plans were accepted by the Department of Building and Safety for
plan check prior to the operative date of this ordinance.  This exception does
not apply to any Project where changes were later made to the Project which
increase the gross square footage or number of parking spaces by more than five
percent.  This exception shall no longer be valid if construction is not
commenced within one year of the date of issuance of the permit.	6.	Any
landscape that is designated a Historic-Cultural
Monument.	7.	Cemeteries.	D.	Definitions.  Whenever the following terms are used
in Sections 12.40 through 12.43 they shall be construed as defined below. 
Words and phrases not defined herein shall be construed as defined in Sections
12.03, and in the Guidelines adopted by the City Planning Commission pursuant to
Subsection F below.	Grass – Any relatively low-growing living ground cover of
the family Poaceae (Graminae), usually mown.  Includes, but is not limited to,
members of the species Agropyron (Wheat Grass), Agrostis (Bent Grass, Redtop),
Bouteloua (Blue Grama Grass), Buchloe (Buffalo Grass), Cynodon (Bermudagrass),
Festuca (Fescue), Lolium (Rye Grass), Poa (Bluegrass), Stenotaphrum (St.
Augustine Grass), Zoysia (Korean Grass).  Does not include members of the
family Poaceae (Graminae), that are usually not mown, such as members of the
species Aristidia (Triple-Awned Grass), Miscanthus (Eulalia Grass), Muhlenbergia
(Deer Grass).	Landscape Practitioner – Any person licensed by the State of
California to design, install or maintain landscape or irrigation systems.  Any
person specifically exempted by the State from the licensing requirements in the
field of landscape or land management.  Any owner who designs, installs or
maintains landscaping or irrigation systems on his or her own property.	Lawn
Area – Any relatively low-growing, living, ground cover, typically (but not
necessarily) mown, that will withstand foot traffic, and that requires
dry-season irrigation greater than that required by Common Bermudagrass (Cynodon
dactylon).  Includes Dichondra and Clovers (Trifolium species.)	Native (Plant)
– Any (plant) species indigenous to the Los Angeles area existing before
European settlement, as identified in James Hendrickson’s The Jepson Manual,
or its successor standard reference, as adopted by the Director of
Planning.	Native (Plant) Community – A recurring combination of native (plant)
species that reflects parallel responses to similar combinations of
environmental conditions, as identified in Robert F. Holland’s “Preliminary
Descriptions of the Terrestrial Natural Communities of California,” or its
successor standard reference, as adopted by the Director of Planning.	Permeable
– A material that permits water penetration to a soil depth of 18 inches or
more, including non porous surface material poured or laid in sections not
exceeding one square foot in area and collectively comprising less than
two-thirds of the total surface area of loosely laid material such as crushed
stone or gravel.	Project – Any use of land, construction or addition which
includes more than 2,000 gross square feet of impermeable surface.  A Project
shall include new parking areas and additions to existing parking areas
constructed with impermeable paving and new parking buildings.  A Project shall
not include construction of or addition to one-family dwellings, nor shall a
Project include any structure or use of land which is permeable.	Stream – Any
perennial or intermittent stream or river identified on United State Geological
Survey Maps.	Wetland – Any natural lake, intermittent lake, pond, intermittent
pond, marsh, swamp, seep or spring identified on United States Geological Survey
Maps.	E.	Landscape Point System.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00,
Oper. 7/1/00.)  The Department of City Planning shall not approve proposed
landscape for any Project unless the landscape satisfies the requirements of the
landscape point system, as established by the City Planning Commission.  A
Project that satisfies any landscape requirements of Sections 12.40 through
12.43 of this Code or any other sections of this Code, may accrue
points.	F.	Approvals.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  The Director of Planning shall have the authority to issue approvals
under Sections 12.40 through 12.43 of this Code.  The Director shall review and
approve or disapprove the proposed landscape.  These decisions shall be based
on the requirements for application submittal established by the City Planning
Commission.  The City Planning Commission shall adopt and revise, as necessary,
guidelines to implement the provisions of Sections 12.40 through 12.43.  The
Director may also grant exemptions from Sections 12.40 through 12.43 if he or
she finds that these landscaping requirements are inappropriate due to the
temporary nature of the Project.	G.	Certificate of Substantial
Completion.	1.	When the approved landscape has been substantially installed, a
landscape practitioner shall file a certificate of substantial completion
certifying to the Department of City Planning, that the proposed landscape
required in Sections 12.40 through 12.43 of this Code has been substantially
provided on the Project.	2.	Substantial completion may be guaranteed by the
applicant, in lieu of actual installation.  A performance bond, certificate of
deposit, letter of credit, surety deposit, or other instrument satisfactory to
the City Attorney, in any amount equal to the cost of the landscape, shall be
posted with the City to ensure satisfactory completion of the
landscape.	3.	Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to prevent the
Department of Building and Safety from issuing a certificate of occupancy, when
otherwise permitted or required.	H.	Relationship To The Provisions of The Los
Angeles Municipal Code.	1.	Existing “Q” Conditions, “D” Development
Limitations or “F” Funded Improvement Classifications.  In the case of
conflicts between Sections 12.40 through 12.43 of this Code with existing
“Q” conditions, “D” development limitations or “F” funded
improvements classifications, the existing “Q” conditions, “D”
development limitations or “F” funded improvement classifications shall
control.	2.	Existing Specific Plans.  In the case of conflicts between Sections
12.40, 12.42 and 12.43 of this Code with existing specific plans, the provisions
of the following existing specific plans shall control:  Central City West
Specific Plan, Colorado Boulevard Specific Plan, Devonshire-Topanga Specific
Plan, Granada Hills Specific Plan, Mulholland Scenic Parkway Specific Plan
(controls over Section 12.42 only), Pacific Palisades Commercial Village
Specific Plan, Park Mile Specific Plan, Playa Vista Specific Plan, Porter Ranch
Specific Plan (controls over Section 12.43 only), Reseda Central Business
District Specific Plan, San Vicente Scenic Corridor Specific Plan, Valley
Village Specific Plan, the Venice Coastal Zone regulations, Ventura-Cahuenga
Boulevard Corridor Specific Plan, Warner Center Specific Plan, and
Wilshire-Westwood Scenic Corridor Specific Plan.  In the case of conflicts
between Sections 12.40 through 12.43 of this Code with the provisions of the
Mount Washington Specific Plan or the Foothill Boulevard Corridor Specific Plan,
the more restrictive provisions shall control.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,694,
Eff. 9/26/97.)	3.	Future Specific Plans, “Q” Conditions, “D” Development
Limitations or “F” Funded Improvement Classifications.  Future specific
plans, “Q” conditions, “D” development limitations or “F” funded
improvement classifications may impose alternate landscape requirements, if they
expressly state that the specific plan’s,’”Q” conditions’s, “D”
development limitation’s or “F” funded improvement classification’s
landscape requirements are intended to supersede the standards set forth in
Sections 12.40 through 12.43 of this Code.	I.	If any provision of Sections 12.40
through 12.43 conflicts with Article 7, Chapter V of this Code, Article 7,
Chapter V shall control.	J.	Unless specifically prohibited by this Code, any
existing features and techniques that fulfill the requirements of Sections 12.40
through 12.43 of this Code may be used to satisfy the requirements of these
sections.  The provisions of Sections 12.40 through 12.43 of this Code shall
not require the removal of any existing structures or features nor prohibit any
existing, installed landscape techniques.  Where conflicts arise, all efforts
shall be made to conform to the provisions of Sections 12.40 through 12.43 of
this Code in a reasonable and practical manner.
