                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

LANDSCAPE – WATER MANAGEMENT. (§ 12.41)

  LANDSCAPE – WATER MANAGEMENT.
	(Added by Ord. No. 170,978, Eff. 5/13/96, Oper. 7/13/96.)	A.	Purpose.  To
contribute to conservation of the City’s imported water resources mandated by
state law by setting minimum standards for water delivery systems to
landscapes.	B.	Requirements and Prohibitions.	1.	No building permit, use of land
permit, or grading permit for which landscape is required or for which landscape
is provided shall be issued, except when the purpose is to construct a
one-family dwelling, unless the Department of City Planning first determines
that the required Water Management features and techniques, established by the
City Planning Commission will be installed on the subject lot.  No water
management approval shall be required or issued for these permits unless a
landscape approval required for the permits has first been issued by the
Department of City Planning.	2.	All permanent irrigation systems required under
the provisions of this Code that use potable water shall meet the minimum
specifications for features and techniques established by the City Planning
Commission.	3.	No irrigation system shall be required for undisturbed native or
undisturbed natural vegetation, provided that the overall hydrologic regime that
supported the vegetation remains unaltered.  At the discretion of the
Department of City Planning, an irrigation system may be required when the
applicant proposes to establish native plantings, designed to take advantage of
natural rainfall.	4.	No portion of this section shall be construed to mandate
any specific type of irrigation equipment, either existing or to be developed,
except backflow preventers, nor any specific method of application of water,
either existing or to be developed, provided it meets the criteria set forth in
this section, unless specifically required by other sections of this Code.  The
provision of hose bibs or quick coupler valves shall be considered the provision
of an irrigation system, provided all points of the irrigated area are less than
50 feet from a hose bib or quick coupler valve; no portion of the irrigated area
slopes at more than a 5:1 grade; and the total area to be irrigated does not
exceed 500 square feet.	5.	Irrigation Maintenance.  All portions of every
irrigation system shall be continuously maintained in a condition such that the
intent of the irrigation design is fulfilled.  Uncontrolled emission of water
from any pipe, valve head, emitter, or other irrigation device shall be
considered evidence of non-maintenance.	6.	For the purposes of this section
only, a Landscape practitioner is as defined in Section 12.40D and also includes
any person certified by a professional organization in the field of water
management, or any person with a bachelor’s degree or equivalent from a
California college or university, in the field of water management, when not in
conflict with applicable State licensing laws and guidelines adopted by the
Director of Planning.  The Director is hereby authorized to adopt guidelines
and procedures necessary to implement the provisions of this
section.	7.	Mulch.  Owners of landscaping shall be encouraged to provide for
plant mulching with planted areas provided with a layer of mulch a minimum of
three inches deep, to aid the growth of the plants.
