                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

AIRPORT APPROACH ZONING REGULATIONS. (§ 12.50)

  AIRPORT APPROACH ZONING REGULATIONS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)	A.	Scope and
Applicability of Regulations.  It is hereby found that potential airport
hazards exist or may be created in connection with the maintenance and operation
of the Van Nuys and Los Angeles International Airports.  In order to prevent
the creation or establishment of these hazards, special airport zoning
regulations controlling height limits and regulating the use of the land are
hereby established within the airport hazard areas surrounding the Van Nuys and
Los Angeles International Airports.  The provisions of this section are not
intended to abrogate any other section of this Code, and when it appears that
there is a conflict with other sections, the most restrictive requirement shall
apply.	B.	Airport Hazard Areas Map.  The boundaries of the airport hazard areas
and the height limitations imposed in those areas are shown on the “Airport
Hazard Areas Map”, made up of separate sheets and bearing appropriate marks,
notations, references and other information and consisting of:	(1)	the Airport
Hazard Areas Map relating to the Van Nuys Airport and adopted as part of
Ordinance No. 130,500, which added Section 12.50 to this Code;	(2)	the Airport
Hazard Areas Map relating to the Los Angeles International Airport, (both of
which maps are attached and by this reference incorporated into this ordinance
and made a part of it as though set forth at length); and	(3)	any future
amendments and additions to the maps as may be adopted by
ordinance.	C.	Definitions.  For the purpose of this section certain terms and
words are defined as follows:	1.	Airport Hazard means any structure or tree or
use of land which obstructs the airspace required for the flight of aircraft in
landing or taking off at an airport or is otherwise hazardous to the landing or
taking off of aircraft.	2.	Airport Hazard Area means any area of land or water
upon which an airport hazard might be established if not prevented as provided
in this section.	3.	Structure means any object constructed or installed by man,
including, but without limitation, buildings, towers, smoke stacks, and overhead
lines.	4.	Tree means any object of natural growth.	D.	General Provisions. 
Except where it is determined by a Zoning Administrator, or by the Area Planning
Commission upon appeal pursuant to Subsections B through Q of Section 12.24,
after consideration of any report and recommendation which might be submitted by
the General Manager of the Department of Airports, that compliance with this
section in a particular situation would result in practical difficulty or
unnecessary hardship and that the proposed height of a structure or tree beyond
that otherwise permitted by the provisions of this section will not constitute a
hazard to aircraft or in any way interfere with air safety or the safety of
persons and objects on the ground, no structure shall be erected, structurally
altered, enlarged or maintained, and no tree shall be planted, allowed to grow
or be maintained within the airport hazard areas surrounding the Van Nuys or Los
Angeles International Airports which exceeds the heights as shown on the Airport
Hazard Areas Map or as further provided in Subsection F for transitional surface
areas.  The procedure and fees for requesting and procuring a determination of
an exception mentioned herein, for appealing from the determination or
requesting a transfer of jurisdiction to the Area Planning Commission, and the
time limitations applicable to those actions shall be the same as those provided
in Subsections B through Q of Section 12.24 of this code; provided, however,
that upon the filing of a request for exception with the Department of City
Planning, the Department shall immediately request a report and recommendation
from the General Manager of the Department of Airports and time shall not
commence to run for a Zoning Administrator to act until the report and
recommendation has been received or 60 days have elapsed from the time of the
request.	E.	Use Restrictions.  Notwithstanding any other provisions of this
article, no use may be made of land within an airport hazard area, as
established by this section in a manner as to create electrical or electronic
interference with radio or radar communication between the Van Nuys or Los
Angeles International Airports and approaching or departing aircraft.  No
illuminated or flashing advertising or business sign, billboard or any other
structure shall be installed or maintained within an airport hazard area which
would make it difficult for flyers to distinguish between those lights and the
aeronautical lights of the airport, or which would result in glare in the eyes
of pilots and impairment of visibility or otherwise endanger the landing, taking
off or maneuvering of aircraft.	F.	Transitional Surface Area Height Limits. 
The height limit in the transitional surface areas, as shown on the above
described map, shall be an inclined plane surface having a slope ratio of one
vertical to seven horizontal, sloping upward and outward from the boundary of
the transitional surface area on either side of a runway or from the edge of a
runway approach area, whichever is adjacent.  The direction of the slope shall
be at right angles to the center line of the runway or its prolongation and
shall extend upward from the elevation of the nearest runway or from the height
limit elevation permitted in a runway approach area, whichever is
adjacent.	G.	Interpretations.  Where uncertainty exists in applying the
provisions of this section, the Zoning Administrator, upon written request,
shall determine the location of the boundary lines of the airport hazard areas
or the height limits by written decision pursuant to Subsections B through Q of
Section 12.24.  A copy of the decision shall be furnished to the Department of
Building and Safety.	Any person claiming to be aggrieved by the determination of
the Zoning Administrator with respect to the location of the boundary lines of
the airport hazard areas or the height limits permitted therein may, within 15
days after the decision of the Zoning Administrator, appeal to the Area Planning
Commission pursuant to Subsections B through Q of Section 12.24 of this
Code.	The Area Planning Commission, upon notice to the person claiming to be
aggrieved, shall hear the appeal within 15 days after it is filed.  Upon
hearing the appeal, the Area Planning Commission shall within 14 days declare
its findings.  It may sustain, modify or overrule the decision of the Zoning
Administrator.	H.	Exception.  The provisions of this section shall not prevent
structures, including all projections from the structure, to be erected,
structurally altered, enlarged or maintained and trees to be planted and
maintained to an overall height of not to exceed 45 feet above the natural or
finished grade, whichever is lower.	I.	Continuation of Existing Regulations. 
The provisions of this section, insofar as they are substantially the same as
existing provisions relating to the same subject matter, shall be construed as
restatements and continuations and not as new enactments.	J.	Before any existing
structure which conforms to all other provisions of this article but which does
not conform with the provisions of this section may be replaced, substantially
altered or repaired, or rebuilt in a manner not conforming with the height
limitations of this section, a permit must be secured from the Department of
Building and Safety in addition to all other permits required by this Code. 
All applications for these permits shall be granted except those which would
permit a nonconforming structure to be made higher or become a greater hazard to
air navigation than it was when the applicable restrictions of this section were
adopted or when the application for the permit was made, whichever is the more
restrictive.  No permit is required by this section to make maintenance repairs
to or to replace parts of existing structures which do not enlarge or increase
the height of those structures.	Any existing tree which does not conform with
the provisions of this section may remain or be replaced by one of comparable or
smaller size or be replanted but shall not be allowed to grow higher or become a
greater hazard to air navigation than it was when the applicable restrictions of
this section were adopted.
