                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ZONING. (§ 12.70)

  ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ZONING.
	(Added by Ord. No. 151,294, Eff. 9/1/78.)	A.	Purpose.  It is the purpose and
object of this section to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to
prevent the continued concentration of adult entertainment businesses, as
defined herein, within the City of Los Angeles.	B.	Definitions.  For the
purpose of this section, certain terms and words are defined as
follows:	1.	“Adult Arcade” – An establishment where, for any form of
consideration, one or more motion picture projectors, slide projectors or
similar machines, for viewing by five or fewer persons each, are used to show
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic
reproductions which are characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction or
description of “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical
areas.”	2.	“Adult Bookstores” – An establishment which has as a
substantial portion of its stock-in-trade and offers for sale for any form of
consideration any one or more of the following:	(a)	Books, magazines,
periodicals or other printed matter, or photographs, films, motion pictures,
video cassettes, slides or other visual representations which are characterized
by an emphasis upon the depiction or description of “specified sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical areas;” or	(b)	Instruments, devices
or paraphernalia which are designed for use in connection with “specified
sexual activities.”	3.	“Adult Cabaret” – A nightclub, bar, restaurant or
similar establishment which regularly features live performances which are
characterized by the exposure of “specified anatomical areas” or by
“specified sexual activities,” or films, motion pictures, video cassettes,
slides or other photographic reproductions which are characterized by an
emphasis upon the depiction or description of “specified sexual activities”
or “specified anatomical areas.”	4.	“Adult Motel” – A motel or similar
establishment offering public accommodations for any form of consideration which
provides patrons with closed circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions which are
characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction or description of “specified
sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas.”	5.	“Adult Motion
Picture Theater” – An establishment where, for any form of consideration,
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or similar reproductions are
shown, and in which a substantial portion of the total presentation time is
devoted to the showing of material which is characterized by an emphasis upon
the depiction or description of “specified sexual activities” or
“specified anatomical areas”	6.	“Adult Theater” – A theater concert
hall, auditorium or similar establishment which, for any form of consideration,
regularly features live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
“specified anatomical areas” or by “specified sexual
activities.”	7.	“Establishment” (Amended by Ord. No. 157,538, Eff.
5/13/83.)  – As used in Subsection C hereof, the “establishment” of an
adult entertainment business shall mean and include any of the
following:	(a)	The opening or commencement of any such business as a new
business;	(b)	The conversion of an existing business, whether or not an adult
entertainment business, to any of the adult entertainment businesses defined
herein; or	(c)	The relocation of any such business.	8.	“Massage Parlor” 
–  An establishment where, for any form of consideration, massage, alcohol
rub, fomentation, electric or magnetic treatment, or similar treatment or
manipulation of the human body is administered, unless such treatment or
manipulation is administered by a medical practitioner, chiropractor,
acupuncturist, physical therapist or similar professional person licensed by the
State of California. This definition does not include an athletic club, health
club, school, gymnasium, state licensed cosmetology or barber establishment,
reducing salon, spa or similar establishment where massage or similar
manipulation of the human body is offered as an incidental or accessory service.
(Amended by Ord. No. 155,718, Eff. 8/6/81.)	9.	“Public Park” – A park,
playground, swimming pool, beach, pier, reservoir, golf course or similar
athletic field within the City of Los Angeles which is under the control,
operation or management of the City Board of Recreation and Park Commissioners
or the County Department of Beaches.	10.	“Religious Institution” – A
building which is used primarily for religious worship and related religious
activities.	11.	“School”  – An institution of learning for minors,
whether public or private which offers instruction in those courses of study
required by the California Education Code or which is maintained pursuant to
standards set by the State Board of Education. This definition includes a
nursery school, kindergarten, elementary school, junior high school, senior high
school or any special institution of learning under the jurisdiction of the
State Department of Education, but it does not include a vocational or
professional institution or an institution of higher education, including a
community or junior college, college or university.	12.	“Sexual Encounter
Establishment” – An establishment, other than a hotel, motel or similar
establishment offering public accommodations, which, for any form of
consideration, provides a place where two or more persons may congregate,
associate or consort in connection with “specified sexual activities” or the
exposure of “specified anatomical areas.” This definition does not include
an establishment where a medical practitioner, psychologist, psychiatrist or
similar professional person licensed by the State of California engages in
sexual therapy.	13.	“Specified Anatomical Areas”  – As used herein,
“specified anatomical areas” shall mean and include any of the
following:	(a)	Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals,  pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breasts below a point immediately above the top
of the areolas; or	(b)	Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even
if completely and opaquely covered.	14.	“Specified Sexual Activities” — As
used herein, “specified sexual activities” shall mean and include any of the
following:	(a)	The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breasts;	(b)	Sex acts, normal or perverted,
actual or simulated, including intercourse, oral copulation or
sodomy;	(c)	Masturbation, actual or simulated; or	(d)	Excretory functions as
part of or in connection with any of the activities set forth in (a) through (c)
above.	15.	“Substantial Enlargement” – As used in Subsection C hereof, the
“substantial enlargement” of an adult entertainment business shall mean the
increase in floor area occupied by the business by more than fifty percent
(50%), as such floor area exists on the effective date of this
section.	16.	“Transfer of Ownership or Control” – As used in Subsections C
and E hereof, the “transfer of ownership or control” of an adult
entertainment business shall mean and include any of the following:	(a)	The
sale, lease or sublease of such business;	(b)	The transfer of securities which
constitute a controlling interest in such business, whether by sale, exchange or
similar means; or	(c)	The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal
device which transfers the ownership or control of such business, except for
transfer by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person
possessing such ownership or control.	17.	“Adult Entertainment Business” –
Adult Arcade, Adult Bookstore, Adult Cabaret, Adult Motel, Adult Motion Picture
Theatre, Adult Theatre, Massage Parlor, or Sexual Encounter Establishment, as
defined herein, and each shall constitute a separate adult entertainment
business even if operated in conjunction with another adult entertainment
business at the same establishment. (Added by Ord. No. 157,538, Eff.
5/13/83.)	C.	Prohibition. (Amended by Ord. No. 158,579, Eff. 1/23/84.) No person
shall cause or permit the establishment, substantial enlargement or transfer of
ownership or control of an adult entertainment business within 1,000 feet of
another adult entertainment business, or within 500 feet of a religious
institution, school, or public park within the City of Los Angeles. No person
shall cause or permit the establishment or maintenance of more than one adult
entertainment business in the same building, structure or portion thereof, or
the increase of floor area of any adult entertainment business in any building,
structure or portion thereof containing another adult entertainment business.	No
person shall cause or permit the establishment, or substantial enlargement of an
adult entertainment business within 500 feet of any lot in an “A” or “R”
zone, or within the “CR”, “C1”, or “C1.5” zones in the City of Los
Angeles.	After March 6,1988, no person shall cause or permit the continued
operation, maintenance, or use of a lot, building or structure, or any portion
thereof as an Adult Arcade, Adult Bookstore, Adult Cabaret, Adult Motel, Adult
Motion Picture Theater, Adult Theater, Massage Parlor or Sexual Encounter
Establishment, within 500 feet of any lot in an “A” zone or “R” zone, or
within the “CR”, “C1” or “C1.5” zones in  the City of Los Angeles.
(Added by Ord. No. 161,111, Eff. 5/18/86.)	D.	Measurement Of Distance. The
distance between any two adult entertainment businesses shall be measured in a
straight line, without regard to intervening structures, from the closest
exterior structural wall of each business. The distance between any adult
entertainment business and any religious institution, school or public park
shall be measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures,
from the closest exterior structural wall of the adult entertainment business to
the closest property line of the religious institution, school or public
park.	E.	Exceptions.	1.	A person possessing ownership or control of an adult
entertainment business which is within 1,000 feet of another such business or
within 500 feet of any religious institution, school or public park on the
effective date of this ordinance shall be permitted to transfer such ownership
or control within two (2) years of said effective date. The person acquiring
such ownership or control, however, shall be required to discontinue said adult
entertainment business within five (5) years from the date of said transfer of
ownership or control, if such business continues to be within 1,000 feet of
another such business or within 500 feet of any religious institution, school or
public park.	2.	A person possessing ownership or control of an adult
entertainment business shall be permitted to transfer such ownership or control
if such business is not within 500 feet of any religious institution, school or
public park and the only other adult entertainment business or businesses within
1,000 feet of such business have been established under a variance from the
requirements of this section, pursuant to the variance provisions set forth in
Section 12.27 of this Code. This exception shall not, however, apply to an adult
entertainment business which has been established under such a
variance.	3.	Except for an adult entertainment business required to be
discontinued pursuant to Subdivision 1 of this subsection, if more than one
adult entertainment businesses exists in the same building, structure or portion
thereof, then all may be continued until March 10, 1985. At that time all shall
be discontinued except those established prior to September 1, 1978; but if none
of the adult entertainment businesses were established prior to September 1,
1978, then all shall be discontinued except for one, and in case of a dispute
the adult entertainment business established first shall have the priority right
to continue.	4.	An adult entertainment business may be continued, or established
and maintained, pursuant to Section 12.22A20.  (Amended by Ord. No. 161,111,
Eff. 5/18/86.)	F.	Severability.  If any provision or clause of this section or
the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held to be
unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction,
such invalidity shall not affect other section provisions, clauses or
applications thereof which can be implemented without the invalid provision,
clause or application thereof, and to this end the provisions and clauses of
this section are declared to be severable.
