                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

CONVERSION PROJECTS:RESIDENTIAL; RESIDENTIAL TO COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL. (§
12.95.2)

  CONVERSION PROJECTS:  RESIDENTIAL; RESIDENTIAL TO COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL.
	(Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 154,960, Eff. 4/3/81.) (Section
Renumbered by Ord. No. 162,832, Eff. 10/26/87.)

	A.	Purpose:  The purpose of these provisions is to promote greater individual
choice in type, quality, price and location of housing; to provide for the
housing needs of all segments of the population; to provide increased
homeownership opportunities for all segments of the population; to mitigate the
hardship caused by displacement of tenants, particularly those in low to
moderate cost housing and those who are elderly, families with minor dependent
children, the handicapped and the disabled; to promote the safety of conversion
projects and correction of Building Code violations in such projects; to provide
adequate off-street parking; to encourage construction of new rental units to
replace units lost due to conversions; to protect the existing rental housing
stock by reducing conversions; to provide increased opportunities for the
ownership of commercial or industrial real property in the form of condominiums
or stock cooperatives; to assure that the continued use of buildings for
commercial or industrial purposes is substantially consistent with applicable
general and specific plans; and to generally regulate projects in accordance
with applicable general and specific plans and with the public health, safety
and welfare.

	B.	Applicability:  The provisions of this section shall apply to all tentative
maps and preliminary parcel maps as to which the Advisory Agency has not
rendered a decision on the date this section becomes effective. The provisions
of this amendment to this section shall only apply to all tentative maps and
preliminary parcel maps as to which the Advisory Agency has not rendered a
decision on the date the amendment becomes effective, except as otherwise
expressly stated in this section. For purposes of this subsection, a decision is
rendered on the date of the Advisory Agency’s public hearing and announced
decision, or where no such decision is announced, the date of mailing of the
Advisory Agency’s letter of decision and findings to the applicant.

	C.	Definitions:  The terms used in this section are defined in Sections 12.03
and 17.02 of the Municipal Code.

	D.	Application Requirements:

	1.	Residential Conversion Projects:

	a.	A residential conversion project shall comply with the Division of Land
regulations in Article 7 of this chapter, the provisions of this section and
other applicable state laws and local ordinances.

	b.	In addition to the information required by other applicable sections of this
Code, the following information shall be submitted at the time of filing.

	(1)	Building plans or other documents containing the following information
pertaining to the project as proposed, certified as to accuracy by a licensed
engineer.

	(a)	Description of the features of the type of building and project, including
age, type of construction, number of dwelling units, number of habitable rooms
per dwelling unit; and

	(b)	Site plan, including buildings, structures, yards, open spaces, and
accessory storage areas and buildings including trash storage areas; and

	(c)	Parking plan, including the total number of spaces actually provided and
the total number required if different from that actually provided; dimensions
of stalls, aisles and driveways; locations of columns, walls and other
obstructions; total number of covered and uncovered parking spaces and location
and number of guest parking spaces.

	(2)	Tenant Information.  Name and address of each tenant; total number of
project occupants; length of tenancy; rent schedule for 18 months preceding the
application; relocation assistance plan.  (Amended by Ord. No. 178,632, Eff.
5/26/07.)

	(3)	Sales Information.  Anticipated range of sales prices of individual
dwelling units or shares based on information known at the time of application;
anticipated terms of sale to existing tenants; statement as to whether sales
will be permitted to families with minor children; incentives to tenants for the
purchase of the dwelling units; written notice to the tenants of an exclusive
right to purchase the dwelling unit occupied by the tenant; and the number of
tenants that have expressed interest in purchasing their dwelling unit. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 178,632, Eff. 5/26/07.)

	(4)	Floor and elevation plans, including indications of common and private
areas, and required exits.

	(c)	The following additional information may be required by the Advisory Agency
as a condition of approval:

	(1)	Certificate of Housing Compliance Inspection Report as provided by Section
91.0318 of the Municipal Code, or equivalent report satisfactory to the Advisory
Agency, which report shall detail any violations of provisions of Chapter IX
enacted after such permit was issued and which are explicitly made applicable to
existing structures.

	(2)	Building inspection reports (if any such report has already been submitted
to the California Department of Real Estate, a copy of such report shall be
furnished to the City):

	(a)	Building component reports indicating conditions and estimated remaining
useful life of the roof, foundation, plumbing, electrical, heating, air
conditioning, other mechanical and structural systems, prepared by a registered
civil or structural engineer, licensed general building contractor, licensed
general engineering contractor or architect;

	(b)	Structural pest control report, prepared by a licensed pest control
contractor;

	(c)	Acoustical report, indicating (1) the type of construction between dwelling
units and the general sound attenuation characteristics of such construction, or
indicating the level of sound attenuation between dwelling units, and (2) the
feasibility of various levels of improvement, prepared by a licensed acoustical
engineer; and
	(d)	Utility metering reports, if the units of the building are not individually
metered, indicating the feasibility of individual or submetering, prepared by
qualified engineers.

	(3)	Any other information, including conditions, covenants and restrictions,
articles of incorporation and by–laws, which the Advisory Agency deems
necessary to determine if the proposed project is consistent with the Municipal
Code.

	2.	Residential to Commercial/Industrial Conversion Projects.

	a.	A residential to commercial/industrial conversion project shall comply with
the Division of Land regulations in Article 7 of this chapter, the provisions of
this section and other applicable state laws and local ordinances.

	b.	In addition to the information required by other applicable sections of this
Code, the following information shall be submitted at the time of filing.

	(1)	Tenant Information:  Name and address of each tenant in the existing
residential building; rent schedule for eighteen (18) months preceding the
application and relocation assistance plan if any;

	(2)	Building plans or other documents containing the following information
pertaining to the project as proposed, certified as to accuracy by a licensed
engineer.

	(a)	Description of the features of the type of building and project, including
age, type of construction, the number of separate units proposed, the square
footage of each such unit and of the entire building.

	(b)	Parking plan, including the total number of spaces actually provided and
the total number required if different from that actually provided, dimensions
of stalls, aisles, and driveways, locations of columns, walls, and other
obstructions, and location and number of guest parking spaces.

	(c)	The following additional information may be required by the Advisory Agency
as a condition of approval.

	(1)	Building component reports indicating condition and estimated remaining
useful life of the roof, foundation, plumbing, electrical, heating, air
conditioning, other mechanical and structural systems, prepared by a registered
civil or structural engineer, licensed general building contractor, licensed
general engineering contractor or architect.

	(2)	Site plan, including, buildings, structures, yards, open spaces, and
accessory storage areas and buildings including trash storage areas.

	(3)	Floor and elevation plans, including indication of common and private
areas, and required exists.

	(4)	Building inspection reports (if any such report has already been submitted
to the California Department of Real Estate, a copy of such report shall be
furnished to the City)

	(5)	Any other information, including conditions, covenants and restrictions,
articles of incorporation and by–laws, which the Advisory Agency deems
necessary to determine if the proposed project is consistent with the Municipal
Code.

	3.	All Projects.  No application for tentative or preliminary parcel map
approval of a residential conversion project or a residential to commercial/
industrial conversion project shall be accepted without adequate evidence from
the applicant that each tenant of the project has received:  written notice of
intention to file a tentative or preliminary parcel map application at least 60
days prior to the filing of the application and a written copy of the relocation
assistance provisions of Sections 47.06 and 47.07 of this Code.  Any person who
becomes a tenant of a residential rental unit proposed for conversion to a
residential or commercial/industrial condominium, stock cooperative or community
apartment project after the date of the filing of the application shall be given
written notice of the pendency of the application prior to entering into any
written or oral rental agreement.  (Amended by Ord. No. 178,632, Eff. 5/26/07.)

	E.	Tenant Notification:

	1.	Notification of hearing on tentative map or preliminary parcel map. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 178,632, Eff. 5/26/07.)  In addition to other notification
requirements of this Code, the Department of City Planning shall give notice of
any public hearing on a tentative map or preliminary parcel map to each tenant
in each dwelling unit of the building or buildings proposed for conversion.

	This notice shall be in writing and mailed no less than ten days prior to the
public hearing on the tentative map or preliminary parcel map.

	The notice may include a questionnaire, to be completed at the option of each
tenant, regarding the approximate ages and disabilities or handicaps, if any, of
the household members, comments concerning the physical condition of the
building and its various components and characteristics as outlined in
Subparagraph (2) of Paragraph c. of Subdivision 1. of Subsection D. of this
section, and any other information as may be pertinent to the pending
proceedings.

	2.	Notification of proposed conversion prior to termination of tenancy due to
the conversion.  Each tenant of a conversion project subject to this section
shall be given 180 days written notice of intention to convert prior to
termination of tenancy due to the conversion or proposed conversion.  Each
person who becomes a tenant of the conversion project after the date of the 180
days written notice shall be given a copy of the notice of intention to convert
before entering into any written or oral rental agreement, but shall not be
entitled to 180 days written notice prior to termination of tenancy due to the
conversion or proposed conversion.  (Amended by Ord. No. 178,632, Eff.
5/26/07.)

	3.	Residential Conversion Project – Notification of exclusive right to
purchase.  The applicant shall give each tenant of any proposed residential
conversion project written notice of an exclusive right to contract for the
purchase of the dwelling unit occupied by the tenant or purchase of a share in
the corporation entitling the shareholder to enjoy exclusive occupancy of the
unit upon the same or more favorable terms and conditions than those on which
such unit or share will be initially offered to the general public. The right
shall run for a period of not less than 90 days from the issuance of the
subdivision public report pursuant to Section 11018.2 of the California Business
and Professions Code, unless the applicant receives prior written notice of the
tenant’s intention not to exercise the right.

	Where two or more units are combined pursuant to conditions of tentative map or
preliminary parcel map approval, the notice required by this Subdivision 3 shall
be given to the tenants of the combined units and priority among tenants shall
be determined in an equitable manner. A tenant who is prevented from purchasing
his unit due to combination of units shall be given a right of first refusal
with respect to the comparable unit in the same residential conversion project,
to the extent possible.

	F.	Tentative Map And Preliminary Parcel Map Approval:

	1.	All tentative maps and preliminary parcel maps filed in connection with
residential or residential to commercial/industrial conversion projects shall be
subject to the Division of Land Regulations contained in Article 7 of this
chapter, except as herein otherwise provided. All such maps shall be subject to
the General Plan and any applicable specific plan only to the extent that such
plan contains a definite statement of policies and objectives explicitly
applicable to conversion projects, except as otherwise provided in this
subsection.

	2.	The Advisory Agency shall disapprove a tentative map or preliminary parcel
map for a residential or residential to commercial/industrial conversion
project, if it finds (a) that the map is not substantially consistent with the
applicable density provisions of the General Plan or specific plans in effect at
the time the original building permit was issued, and (b) the application for
map approval is filed less than five years from the date the original
certificate of occupancy for the building was issued. The Advisory Agency shall
disapprove a tentative map or preliminary parcel map for a residential to
commercial/industrial conversion project where the conversion would be
inconsistent with either the existing zoning pattern or applicable general or
specific plan, unless it finds that there are special circumstances which
justify approval of the map. Such circumstances may exist only with respect to
the following facts (1) the prevailing pattern of residential and
commercial/industrial land use in the vicinity of the project site; and (2) the
existing and anticipated need for commercial/industrial development in the
planing area in which the project is located.

	EXCEPTION: This provision shall not apply to any residential or residential to
commercial/industrial conversion project involving buildings for which a
building permit was applied for prior to July 1,1978.

	3.	The Advisory Agency shall disapprove a tentative map or preliminary parcel
map for a residential or residential to commercial/industrial conversion project
if it finds that any applicable general plan or specific plan provision contains
a definite statement of policies and objectives explicitly applicable to
conversion projects and the proposed map is not substantially consistent with
such provision.

	4.	The Advisory Agency shall disapprove a tentative map or preliminary parcel
map for a residential or a residential to commercial/industrial conversion
project if it finds that there are uncorrected violations of Chapter IX of the
Municipal Code, and that an adequate plan to correct such violations has not
been developed or accomplished. For purposes of this provision, Chapter IX of
the Municipal Code means the Code in effect when the building permit was issued
and other subsequently enacted regulations explicitly made applicable to
existing structures.

	5.	The Advisory Agency shall disapprove a tentative map or preliminary parcel
map for a residential or residential to commercial/industrial conversion
project, if it finds that (a) the building permit for the building was issued
prior to October 1, 1933, and the building is of unreinforced masonry
construction, or (b) the building is more than three stories in height without
an elevator. This provision may be waived where the Advisory Agency finds that
any such condition has been corrected in conformity with Municipal Code
standards.

	6.	After considering the following criteria, the Advisory Agency may approve a
tentative map or preliminary parcel map for a residential or residential to
commercial/industrial conversion project, unless it makes both of the following
findings: (1) the vacancy rate of the planning area in which the property is
located is five percent or less, and (2) the cumulative effect of the rental
housing market in the planning area of successive residential or residential to
commercial/industrial conversion projects (past, present and future) is
significant. A finding of significant cumulative effect shall be based on the
following factors: (a) in the case of residential conversion projects only, the
number of tenants who are willing and able to purchase a unit in the building;
(b) the number of units in the existing residential building prior to
conversion; (c) the number of units which would be eliminated in case conversion
occurred in order to satisfy Municipal Code parking requirements; (d) the
adequacy of the relocation assistance plan proposed by the subdivider; and (e)
any other factors pertinent to the determination. “Vacancy rate” shall refer
to the most current vacancy rate for multiple–family dwelling units as
published by the Department of City Planning in its Semi–Annual Population
Estimate and Housing Inventory, or other estimate or survey satisfactory to the
Advisory Agency. “Planning area” shall refer to those areas established by
the Director of Planning for purposes of community planning pursuant to Section
11.5.6 of the Municipal Code.

	G.	Relocation Assistance:

	1.	Requirement.  The Advisory Agency shall require, as a condition of map
approval, that the applicant execute and record a covenant and agreement, in a
form satisfactory to the Advisory Agency, binding the applicant and any
successor-in-interest to provide relocation assistance in a manner consistent
with Section 47.06 of this Code.  The covenant and agreement shall be executed
and recorded within ten days after the expiration of the appeal period, or final
approval, whichever is later, for tentative map or preliminary parcel map
approval and a copy provided to each tenant within five days of recordation. 
The covenant and agreement shall run to the benefit of any eligible tenant, as
defined in Subdivision 2. of this section and shall be enforceable by any
eligible tenant or by the City.  (Amended by Ord. No. 178,632, Eff. 5/26/07.)

	2.	Eligible Tenant.  As used in this Subsection G., the term “eligible
tenant” means any tenant who was resident of the property both on the date of
tentative or preliminary parcel map application and the date of approval of such
map and who does not intend to purchase a unit in the conversion project.

	3.	Special Protection.  An eligible tenant is entitled to “special
protection”, as defined in this subsection, if the tenant meets the definition
of “Qualified Tenant” in Section 47.06 of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No.
178,632, Eff. 5/26/07.)

	4.	Dispute Resolution.  The covenant and agreement specified in Subdivision 1.
of this subsection shall establish an expeditious mechanism to resolve any
disputes among tenants, the applicant and the City concerning the interpretation
or application of the covenant and agreement.  (Amended by Ord. No. 178,632,
Eff. 5/26/07.)

	5.	(Deleted by Ord. No. 178,632, Eff. 5/26/07.)

	6.	Continued Tenancy Pending Relocation; Eviction; Review Procedure.  Until
each eligible tenant is successfully relocated pursuant to the provisions of
this subsection, the tenant shall be permitted to reside in the unit presently
occupied in the conversion project. There shall be no time limit for such
continued tenancy for each tenant qualified for “special protection,” as
defined in Subdivision 3. of this Subsection G. In all other cases, the
subdivider is not required to consent to continued tenancy beyond twelve months
from the date of tentative map or preliminary parcel map approval or the date on
which the 120–day notice of intent to convert is given to all tenants,
whichever is the later.

	A eligible tenant may be evicted, notwithstanding the paragraph above, for the
following reasons only:

	a.	The tenant has failed to pay the rent to which the landlord is entitled.

	b.	The tenant has violated an obligation or covenant of the tenancy, other than
the obligation to surrender possession upon proper notice and has failed to cure
such violation after having received written notice thereof from the landlord.

	c.	The tenant is committing or permitting to exist a nuisance in or is causing
damage to, the rental unit or to the appurtenances thereof, or to the common
areas of the property containing the rent unit, or is creating an unreasonable
interference with the comfort, safety, or enjoyment of any of the other
residents of the same or adjacent building.

	d.	The tenant is using or permitting a rental unit to be used for any illegal
purpose.

	e.	The tenant who had a written lease or rental agreement which terminated on
or after November 10,1979, has refused, after written request or demand by the
landlord, to execute a written extension or renewal thereof for a further term
or like duration with similar provisions and in such terms as are not
inconsistent with or violative of any provision of this subsection.

	f.	The tenant has refused the landlord reasonable access to the unit for the
purpose of making repairs or improvements, or for the purpose of inspection as
permitted or required by the lease or by law, or for the purpose of showing the
rental unit to any prospective purchaser or mortgagee.

	g.	The person in possession of the rental unit at the end of the lease term is
a subtenant not approved by the landlord.

	Any dispute regarding an eligible tenant’s right to continue tenancy pursuant
to this Subdivision 5. may be heard by the Advisory Agency when application for
such review is made by the subdivider or an eligible tenant. The Advisory Agency
may release the applicant from further compliance with a relocation assistance
plan with respect to any eligible tenant where it finds that the tenant is not
entitled to continued tenancy pursuant to the provisions of this Subdivision 6.

	7.	(Deleted by Ord. No. 178,632, Eff. 5/26/07.)

	8.	(Deleted by Ord. No. 178,632, Eff. 5/26/07.)

	9.	(Renumbered as Subd. 4 by Ord. No. 178,632, Eff. 5/26/07.)

	10.	(Deleted by Ord. No. 178,632, Eff. 5/26/07.)

	H.	Parking:

	1.	Residential Conversion Projects.

	a.	The minimum number of resident parking spaces per dwelling unit shall be one
and one–quarter parking spaces per dwelling unit having three or less
habitable rooms and one and one–half parking spaces per each dwelling unit
having more than three habitable rooms. The Advisory Agency may increase or
decrease the required number of parking spaces up to and including
three–quarters of a space per dwelling unit, where it finds that such
modification is consistent with the purposes of this section.

	b.	The minimum number of guest parking spaces shall be one quarter space per
dwelling unit for projects containing 50 or fewer units and one–half space per
dwelling unit for projects containing more than 50 units. The Advisory Agency
may modify the guest parking requirement up to and including one–half space
per unit where it finds such modification consistent with the purposes of this
section.

	c.	The Advisory Agency may require up to one of the required resident parking
spaces per dwelling unit to be provided in a private garage or carport where it
finds that such is reasonable and feasible and consistent with the purposes of
this section.

	d.	Where the number of parking spaces required by other provisions of this code
in existence on the date of map application exceeds the minimum numbers
established by this section, the number of parking spaces shall not be
diminished.

	e.	In the Central City Area as described in Section 12.21 A.4.(p) of the
Municipal Code, the required parking ratio shall be no less than therein
provided.

	f.	Where the total number of required spaces includes a fraction, the provision
of Section 12.21 A.4.(k) of the Municipal Code shall govern.

	g.	The design and improvement of parking facilities and areas shall
substantially conform to the provisions of Section 21.21 A.5. and 6. of the
Municipal Code.

	2.	Residential to Commercial/Industrial Conversion Projects.

	a.	The required minimum number of parking spaces to be provided in a
residential to commercial/industrial conversion project shall be one parking
space for each 200 square feet of that portion of the total floor area of a
building to be used as a medical office, clinic or other medical service
facility and one parking space for each 500 square feet of that portion of the
total floor area in a building to be used for other commercial or for industrial
purposes. “Total floor area”, as used herein, shall exclude floor area used
for automobile parking or driveways, for basement storage or for rooms housing
mechanical equipment incidental to the operation of buildings.

	b.	The Advisory Agency may increase the required minimum number of parking
spaces by not more than seventy five percent (75%), including any allowance for
guest parking, where it finds that such modification is consistent with the
purposes of this section.

	c.	Where the number of parking spaces required by other provisions of this Code
in existence on the date of map application exceeds the minimum numbers
established by this section, the number of parking spaces shall not be
diminished.

	d.	In the Central City Area as described in Section 12.21 A.4.(p) of the
Municipal Code, the required parking ratio shall be no less than therein
provided.

	e.	Where the total number of required parking spaces includes a fraction, the
provisions of Section 12.21 A.4.(k) of the Municipal Code shall govern.

	f.	The design and improvement of parking facilities and areas shall
substantially conform to the provisions of Section 12.21 A.5. and 6. of the
Municipal Code.

	I.	Building Reports – Residential Conversion Projects.  The Advisory Agency
may require, as a condition of approval, that the applicant notify such person
who communicates an interest in purchasing a unit or share that the following
reports are available for inspection during normal business hours, and shall
take all reasonable steps to assure that such reports fully, fairly and
accurately describe the conditions reported:

	1.	Any report submitted pursuant to Subsection D of this section.

	2.	A report concerning compliance with the sound transmission control standards
established by Section 91.4903(h) of the Municipal Code.

	3.	Report concerning compliance with the residential energy conservation
standards established by Article 1, Part 6, Title 24 of the California
Administrative Code.

	4.	A report concerning compliance with the elevator safety standards
established by Title 8 of the California Administrative Code.

	5.	A report concerning compliance with any provision of Chapter IX of the
Municipal Code which the Advisory Agency and the Superintendent of Building find
appropriate for such reporting purpose.

	J.	Low And Moderate Income Housing – Residential Conversion Projects:  Each
residential conversion project shall comply with Section 12.39* of the Municipal
Code relating to low and moderate income housing.

* Section 12.39 was repealed by Ord. No. 180,308 Eff. 12/7/08.

	K.	Rental Housing Production:

	1.	As a condition of tentative map or preliminary parcel map approval, the
Advisory Agency shall require that the applicant or his successor-in-interest
pay to the City a fee of $1,492 for each unit in a residential or residential to
commercial/industrial conversion project, based on the number of units in the
project prior to conversion.  For the year beginning July 1, 2008, and all
subsequent years, the fee amount shall be adjusted on an annual basis pursuant
to the formula set forth in Section 151.06 D. of this Code.  The adjusted
amount shall be rounded to the nearest $50 increment.  This fee shall be paid
prior to approval of the final map by the City Engineer.  (Amended by Ord. No.
178,632, Eff. 5/26/07.)

	2.	All fees collected pursuant to this Subsection K shall be deposited and held
in the Rental Housing Production Account of the Community Development
Department, which account is hereby established to be administered by the
Community Development Department separately from all other money expended by the
Department. Money in this account shall be used exclusively for the development
of low and moderate income rental housing in the City, pursuant to guidelines
carrying out this purpose prepared by the Department and approved by resolution
of the City Council.
