                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

“K” EQUINEKEEPING DISTRICTS. (§ 13.05)

  “K” EQUINEKEEPING DISTRICTS.
	(Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 157,144, Eff. 11/22/82; “Department of
Animal Regulation” renamed “Department of Animal Services” by Ord. No.
174,735, Eff. 9/13/02.)	A.	Purpose. It is the purpose and object of this section
to establish reasonable and uniform limitations, safeguards and controls for the
keeping and maintenance of equines within the City of Los
Angeles.	B.	Establishment of Districts.	1.	The City Council may establish new
Equinekeeping Districts and enlarge the boundaries of such districts now or
hereafter established.	2.	No Equinekeeping District shall contain less than 5
acres of land including the area of all dedicated streets and highways contained
therein. All lots or parcels of property contained within the district’s
boundaries shall be contiguous. The boundaries of the district shall be drawn so
as to coincide as nearly as practicable with street alignments or other clearly
discernible boundaries. (Amended by Ord. No. 161,352 Eff.
7/20/86.)	C.	Conditions.  All property within a district shall be subject to
the following conditions:	1.	If the equine enclosure is less than 75 feet from
the habitable rooms of a neighbor’s dwelling unit, the enclosure shall not be
closer to the habitable rooms of a neighbor’s dwelling unit than to the
habitable rooms of a dwelling unit on the equine keeping lot.	2.	In no event
shall the equine enclosure be located closer than 35 feet to the habitable rooms
of any dwelling unit.	3.	Any additional conditions which may be deemed necessary
to be imposed shall be established by ordinance.	4.	Notwithstanding any other
provision of this Code relating to the number of equines permitted in any zone,
any lot included in a “K” Equinekeeping District which was formed after
January 12,1975 may be used to keep no more than one equine for each 4,000
square feet of lot area. (Amended by Ord. No. 159,341, Eff.
10/11/84.)	5.	Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code to the contrary,
in a “K” Equinekeeping District, an animal keeping structure may be located
on any portion of a parcel except the required front yard and shall not be
closer than 10 feet from the required side lot lines so long as the distance
requirements of this Section are complied with. This subdivision shall not,
however, authorize the location of an animal keeping structure in any side or
rear yard areas as defined in Section 12.21–C,5(a) (25 foot required yards)
which immediately abut a lot which is not itself in a “K” Equinekeeping
District.	6.	Notwithstanding any provisions of this Code to the contrary, in the
“A” and “R” Zones, located within a “K” Equinekeeping District, a
maximum of two equines not owned by the resident of the involved property may be
boarded or kept on that property as an accessory use without such boarding or
keeping being regarded as a commercial equinekeeping operation; provided,
however, that the total number of equines being boarded or kept on the property
does not exceed one for each 4,000 square feet of lot area. Said equines shall
be issued current Equine Licenses by the City Department of Animal Services.
(Amended by Ord. No. 159,341, Eff. 10/11/84.)	7.	Notwithstanding any provisions
of this Code to the contrary, equine uses of the land on “K” Equinekeeping
District lots shall be allowed to be continued if, after the legal establishment
of the equine use, the City issued a building permit to construct a residential
building on an adjacent lot within the legal required distance between an equine
use and the residential building on an adjacent lot. If, in accordance with the
provisions of Section 12.24X5 the Zoning Administrator grants permission for a
residential building on an adjacent lot to be constructed closer than 35 feet
from a legally existing equine enclosure, the equine enclosure may be considered
to be nonconforming if it is relocated not closer than 35 feet from the
habitable rooms attached to any residential building. The nonconforming equine
use shall be subject to the following limitations:  (Para. Amended by Ord. No.
173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)	a.	The equine enclosure shall not be closer than 35
feet from the habitable rooms of any residential building.	b.	The subject lot
has been designated by an Equine License to stable at least one licensed equine
during the 12 months prior to the issuance of the building permit for the
residential building on an adjacent lot.	c.	The equine enclosure shall not be
expanded, extended, or relocated so as to reduce the nonconforming distance
between the enclosure and the habitable rooms of the residential building on an
adjacent lot.	d.	The nonconforming equine use shall be discontinued if, during a
successive 3–year period, no equine is licensed by the Department of Animal
Services to be stabled on the subject lot.	8.	Notwithstanding any provisions of
this Code to the contrary, if an equine use in a “K” District was legally
established before November 22, 1982, that use shall be allowed to continue even
though the City issued a building permit between November 22, 1982 and July 1,
1986, to construct a residential building on an adjacent lot within the 35-foot
required distance between an equine use and the habitable rooms of a residential
building on the adjacent lot.  This provision shall not apply to building
permits authorized by the Zoning Administrator pursuant to Section 12.24X5. 
This nonconforming equine use shall be subject to the following limitations: 
(Para. Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)	1.	The subject lot has been
designated by an Equine License to stable at least one licensed equine during
the 12 months prior to the issuance of the building permit for the residential
building on an adjacent lot.	2.	The equine enclosure shall not be expanded,
extended, or relocated so as to reduce the nonconforming distance between the
enclosure and the habitable rooms of the residential building on an adjacent
lot.	3.	The nonconforming equine use shall be discontinued if, during a
successive 3–year period, no equine is licensed by the Department of Animal
Services to be stabled on the subject lot.	Nothing in this subdivision relieves
any person from the obligation to comply with the requirements of any County or
State law.
