                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

COMMERCIAL AND ARTCRAFT DISTRICTS. (§ 13.06)

  COMMERCIAL AND ARTCRAFT DISTRICTS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 146,775, Eff. 1/6/75.)	A.	Purpose – The provisions set
forth in this section shall create enclaves whereby the artisan segments of the
population may live, create and market their artifacts. Artcraft activities,
combined with commercial and residential uses will be permitted in those areas
appropriate for the establishment of a Commercial and Artcraft
District.	B.	Application – The provisions of this section shall apply to the
areas wherein CA Districts are permitted.	C.	Establishment of
District.	(1)	Requirements – Each application for the establishment of a
Commercial and Artcraft District shall include the signatures of seventy–five
percent (75%) of the owners or lessees of property of an area not less than
three acres (3 acs.) in total size, or by resolution of the Commission or
Council. The area shall be computed by contiguous parcels of land which may be
separated only by public streets, ways or alleys.	(2)	Boundaries – Public
right-of-ways can be included in the computation of the total acreage in the
district area described in said application and the boundaries thereof shall
follow public streets, ways or alleys so far as practical.	(3)	Alternate
Procedures – The procedures set forth in Section 12. 24 of this Chapter shall
be used for those applicants desirous of a CA District but cannot comply with
the aforementioned procedures.	D.	Standard Conditions – Applicants desirous of
a “CA” District, are subject to the limitations and restrictions contained
herein. Said regulations are imposed in order to promote and achieve optimal
conditions for artcraft functions, while maintaining adequate protection from
obnoxious pollutants, for the adjacent properties.	(1)	Production Techniques –
The creating, assembling, compounding or treating of articles shall be
accomplished by hand, or to the extent practical for a particular artifact.	Only
those art products which are made by the artisan or his employees from raw
materials can be sold. Mass produced parts may be used only if incidental to the
basic artifact. In those production techniques which necessitate the use of a
kiln, the total volume of kiln space shall not exceed twenty–four (24) cubic
feet and no individual kiln shall exceed eight (8) cubic feet.	Power tools shall
be limited to electrically operated motors of not more than one horse
power.	(2)	Location of Equipment  – The machinery and equipment shall be so
installed and maintained, and the activity shall be so conducted, that noise,
smoke, dust, odor and all other objectionable factors, shall be confined or
reduced to the extent that no annoyance or injury will result to persons
residing in the vicinity	(3)	Area of Production – Certain artcraft activities
as listed in Section E2 shall he restricted to either indoor or outdoor
manufacturing.	(4)	Commercial Activities – The display of all completed
artifacts shall he permitted outdoors and all commercial activities shall be
limited to retail business only. The sale of all items, except antiques, shall
be limited to those lawfully produced on the premises.	(5)	Employees – Paid
helpers shall he limited to no more than three (3) persons other than members of
the immediate family occupying the dwelling on such premises.	E.	Permitted
Uses.  It is the intent of this section to distinguish between those uses which
are considered more appropriate for indoor and outdoor use. Those uses which are
likely to create pollutants or other activities that would disturb the
neighborhood are restricted to indoor use. Outdoor uses are those which will not
create a disturbance.	Premises in “CA” District may be used for the
following manufacturing and retail uses, provided artcrafts activities are
limited to those decorative or illustrative elements requiring manual dexterity
or artistic talent. The following list is intended to provide a guide for the
nature of uses permitted in the district.	(1)	Outdoor Uses – The creating,
assembling, compounding or treating of articles contained in the following list
shall be permitted outdoors:	(a)	Antiques – restoration and sale of antiques
and collectibles.	(b)	Art needlework.	(c)	Art studio, including painting and
sculpturing.	(d)	Basket weaving.	(e)	Boutiques	(f)	Candle making.	(g)	Cartoon
and animation.	(h)	Ceramics – The total volume of kiln space shall not exceed
twenty–four (24) cubic feet and no individual kiln shall exceed eight cubic
feet.	(i)	Costume designing.	(j)	Dance and drama studio, not including any dance
activities requiring a license.	(k)	Fine Arts Gallery.	(l)	Glass – The hand
production of glass crystal, art novelties and the assembly of stained art glass
provided that the total volume of kiln space shall not exceed twenty–four (24)
cubic feet and no individual kiln shall exceed eight (8) cubic feet.	(m)	Musical
Instruments	(n)	Photography studio	(o)	Picture mounting and framing.	(p)	Pottery
manufacturing provided the total volume of kiln space 	shall not exceed
twenty–four (24) cubic feet and no individual kiln shall exceed (8) cubic
feet.	(q)	Shoe and footwear provided all manufacturing is done by hand.	(r)	Silk
screen processing.	(s)	Textile weaving, provided hand looms only.	(t)	Toys,
manufacturing of by hand	(u)	Woodcarving	(v)	Writing, professional
studio	(2)	Indoor Uses – The manufacturing, assembling, compounding or
treating of articles contained in the following list shall be permitted indoors
only. Such uses shall not be permitted above the first floor of any
structure.	(a)	Block printing.	(b)	Jewelry manufacturing.	(c)	Metal
engraving.	(d)	Ornamental Iron.	(e)	Printing and
publishing.	(f)	Taxidermy.	(g)	Watchmaking.	(3)	A Zoning Administrator shall
have authority to determine other uses in addition to those specifically listed
in the article, which may be permitted in the CA District, when in his judgement
such other uses or similar to and no more objectionable to the public welfare
than those listed above.	(4)	Artcraft Instructions – Artcraft classes shall be
permitted on premises in the CA District and no additional off-street parking
shall be required in conjunction therewith, provided that:	(a)	Classes are held
not more than two days a week for a period not to exceed three hours per
day	(b)	Classes are purely incidental to the artcraft uses of the property and
not more than 15 persons are permitted to attend each class.	(c)	Classes involve
only the use of those tools and equipment applicable to production of said
artifacts.	(d)	All classes are held on the first floor of the building.	(e)	No
certificate of occupancy shall be required in connection with the use authorized
by this ordinance.	(5)	Residential Uses – In the R Zones, the residential
regulations as required in the underlying zone to which the “CA” District
overlays. shall apply. In the C and M zones, residential uses shall be permitted
in connection with the main commercial, industrial or artcraft use. Said
residential use shall observe the requirements set forth in Section 12.10 of the
Planning and Zoning Code.	(6)	Parking Requirements.  (Amended by Ord. No.
169,670, Eff. 5/13/94.)  Parking requirements for new buildings shall be as
required in Section 12.21 A.  For an existing building, for which a building
permit was issued prior to April 1, 1994, the number of parking spaces required
shall be the same as the number of parking spaces existing on the site.	Any
structure providing a mixture of residential and art craft uses shall meet the
requirements for automobile parking spaces as if each portion of the facility
were an independent entity.	(7)	Yard Requirements.  (Added by Ord. No. 169,670,
Eff. 5/13/94.)  For new buildings, the yard requirements shall be the same as
required by the underlying zone.  For existing buildings, for which a building
permit was issued prior to April 1, 1994, the yards required shall be the same
as the yards observed by the existing buildings on the site.
