                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

“RPD” RESIDENTIAL PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICTS. (§ 13.04)

  “RPD” RESIDENTIAL PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICTS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 141,474, Eff. 2/27/71.)	*A.	Purpose – The purpose of the
regulations set forth in this section is to provide for the establishment and
control of residential planned developments. It is the intent of this section to
promote and achieve greater flexibility in design, to encourage well–planned
neighborhoods with adequate open space which offer a variety of housing and
environments through creative and imaginative planning as a unit, to increase
housing opportunities for low and moderate income households, and provide for
the most appropriate use of land through special methods of development.
(Amended by Ord. No. 145,927, Eff. 6/3/74.)	* If any provision of this
ordinance, or the application thereof to any person, property or circumstance,
is held invalid, the remainder of this ordinance, or the application of such
provisions to other persons, property or circumstances, shall not be affected
thereby.	B.	Application. The provisions of this section shall apply to districts
wherein residential planned developments are permitted.	C.	Requirements for
Filing. Each application for the establishment of an RPD District shall be
accompanied by a preliminary plot plan of the proposed development showing the
expected locations and arrangement of lots, structures, streets, driveways,
easements, open space, parks, schools, and so forth. Such plans shall indicate
the layout of the proposed development, and its appearance, characteristics and
compatibility with the City’s General Plan and existing local conditions.	In
addition to the foregoing, each application for the establishment of an RPD
District in “H” Hillside or Mountainous Areas shall be accompanied by the
following:	1.	Detailed Topographic Survey. The topographic survey shall include
an accurate topographic survey at a minimum scale of 1&#038;″ = 100′ with
contour intervals of 5 and 25 feet. Such survey shall accurately indicate the
location of the property lines.	2.	Basic Preliminary Grading Plan. The
preliminary grading plan shall be prepared by a licensed civil engineer. This
plan shall be at a minimum scale of 1&#038;″ = 100′ and shall include the
following:	a.	Tract number	b.	Legal description.	c.	Names, addresses and
telephone numbers of the record owner, subdivider and design engineer.	d.	North
arrow, engineering scale and date.	e.	The widths and approximate grades of
existing and proposed rights of way within and adjacent to the property
involved	f.	Locations, widths and approximate grades of existing and proposed
highways and streets.	g.	Lot layout, approximate dimensions, proposed elevation
and number of each lot.	h.	Existing and proposed contours of the
land.	i.	Proposed method of sewage disposal and drainage.	j.	Existing and
proposed zoning.	3.	Preliminary Geological and Soils Engineering Reports. These
reports shall be sufficiently detailed to provide a basis for a reasonable
evaluation of geological and soils conditions on and adjacent to the site of the
proposed RPD, and shall contain as a minimum the following:	a.	A geologic map
showing all exposures of rock soil and alluvium, fill, landslides, slumps, zones
of bedrock and soil creep, suspected fault and shear zones, joints and
fractures. The geologic map must be based upon an accurate topographic map or
the preliminary grading plans upon a scale commensurate with items 1 and 2
above, and reflect careful attention to the bedrock and soil types present and
the geologic structure, either exposed or inferred by other geological data
obtained on the site.	b.	A geologic report including definite statements,
conclusions and recommendations concerning the following:	(1)	Location and
general setting with respect to major geographic and/or geologic
features.	(2)	Topography and drainage in the subject area	(3)	Abundance,
distribution, and general nature of exposures of earth materials within the
area	(4)	A reasonable evaluation and prediction of the performance of any
proposed cut and fill slopes in relation to geological conditions.	(5)	An
evaluation of existing and anticipated surface and subsurface water circulation
in terms of the proposed development.	(6)	Recommendations concerning future
detailed subsurface exploration.	c.	A preliminary soils engineering report,
based upon an examination of the site in sufficient detail to provide the
following:	(1)	General anticipated bearing characteristics of earth
materials.	(2)	Lateral stability of earth materials, especially fill
slopes.	(3)	Problems of excavation and fill placement.	(4)	Handling of seepage
water, soil stripping and special treatment of soils on the site.	(5)	Evaluation
of deep canyon fills, side hill fills and any special preparation of areas in
which fill is to be placed.	(6)	Estimation of the swell characteristics of earth
materials and special design problems that may be anticipated.	(7)	Delineation
in general of all areas where future subsurface exploration sampling and testing
may be necessary.	Sufficient copies of the above maps, plans and reports shall
be provided by the applicant for the purpose of distribution to members of the
Subdivision Committee. The required plans and data shall be directed to the
Advisory Agency for analysis, report and recommendation by the Subdivision
Committee on all matters within the purview of said Committee. the Committee
members shall, within 40 calendar days of the filing of the application for an
RPD District, transmit their reports and recommendations to the Advisory Agency.
Within ten calendar days thereafter, the Advisory Agency shall transmit the
report and recommendation to the Subdivision Committee of the Planning
Commission. However on an application for the establishment of an RPD District
in “H” Hillside or Mountainous Areas those time limits may be extended by
mutual consent of the applicant and the Advisory Agency. (Amended by Ord. No.
142,117, Eff. 7/31/71.)	Where a proposed development constitutes a portion of a
single ownership which is to be developed in phases, the applicant shall submit
a projected general plan of land use, circulation and anticipated sequence of
development for the entire ownership. Said plan shall be of sufficient detail to
indicate the proposed relationship of the entire development and individual
phases thereof to the General Plan of the area and to existing adjoining
development and proposed adjoining development which has been approved by the
City.	D.	Establishment of District and Other Requirements – In order to
achieve the purpose of a residential planned development and to assure that such
establishment will substantially comply with the applicable elements of the City
General Plan, the RPD District shall be subject to the following
requirements:	1.	Establishment of District Height and Area Regulations. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  The Council shall in
the ordinance establishing an RPD District also establish the density area
regulations, and height regulation applicable to the district.  The height and
area regulations, including peripheral setbacks, of the zone in which the land
is located, shall not apply to structures, buildings and lots in an approved RPD
District.  However, the setback requirements of the zone in which the RPD
District is located shall be the minimum setback from the periphery required for
structures and buildings within the RPD District itself.  Whenever the City
Planning Commission recommends that the Council adopt an ordinance establishing
an RPD District, it shall also recommend maximum density, height and area
limitations, including peripheral setbacks, and shall transmit to the Council
the recommended plan of development for the entire proposed development.  At
the time the Council is considering the establishment of an RPD District, it
shall submit to the City Planning Commission for report and recommendation any
revised or alternative development plans submitted by the applicant prior to
final action.  The Commission shall act on a revised or alternate plan within
50 days of receipt of the file from the Council.  Should the City Planning
Commission fail to act within the 50 days, the applicant may request transfer of
jurisdiction to the Council.	2.	Density. The ordinance establishing an RPD
District shall contain a number suffixed with said district symbol which shall
be indicated within the boundaries of each zone classification within such
district. Said number shall be the average number of dwelling units permitted
per acre of land, exclusive of public streets, in the residential planned
development, or portion thereof, e.g. RPD–1, RPD–2, etc. Such designation or
designations shall be indicated upon the Zoning Map. In any RPD District, or
differently zoned portion thereof, the average number of dwelling units per acre
of land, or fraction thereof, exclusive of public streets, shall not exceed the
maximum number of dwelling units permitted by the underlying zone or zones
within such district or portion thereof, pursuant to the following
schedule:(Amended by Ord. No. 161,716, Eff. 12/6/86)  
    
      
        Zone
      
      
        Detached Single Family Dwellings
      
      
        or
      
      
        Townhouses
      
      
        or
      
      
        Dwelling Units in Apartments
      
    
    
      
        RE 40
      
      
        1.0
      
      
        ”
      
      
        –
      
      
        ”
      
      
        –
      
    
    
      
        RA; RE 20
      
      
        2.0
      
      
        ”
      
      
        2.0
      
      
        ”
      
      
        –
      
    
    
      
        RE 15
      
      
        2.9
      
      
        ”
      
      
        2.9
      
      
        ”
      
      
        –
      
    
    
      
        RE 11
      
      
        3.9
      
      
        ”
      
      
        3.9
      
      
        ”
      
      
        –
      
    
    
      
        RE 9
      
      
        4.8
      
      
        ”
      
      
        4.8
      
      
        ”
      
      
        –
      
    
    
      
        RS
      
      
        5.8
      
      
        ”
      
      
        5.8
      
      
        ”
      
      
        –
      
    
    
      
        R1
      
      
        8.7
      
      
        ”
      
      
        8.7
      
      
        ”
      
      
        –
      
    
    
      
        RU
      
      
        12.4
      
      
        ”
      
      
        12.4
      
      
        ”
      
      
        –
      
    
    
      
        RD 6
      
      
        –
      
      
        ”
      
      
        7.0
      
      
        ”
      
      
        7.0
      
    
    
      
        RD 5
      
      
        –
      
      
        ”
      
      
        8.7
      
      
        ”
      
      
        8.7
      
    
    
      
        RD 4
      
      
        –
      
      
        ”
      
      
        10.8
      
      
        ”
      
      
        10.8
      
    
    
      
        RD 3
      
      
        –
      
      
        ”
      
      
        14.5
      
      
        ”
      
      
        14.5
      
    
    
      
        RZ 2.5
      
      
        17.4
      
      
        ”
      
      
        17.4
      
      
        ”
      
      
        –
      
    
    
      
        R2
      
      
        –
      
      
        ”
      
      
        17.4
      
      
        ”
      
      
        –
      
    
    
      
        RD 2
      
      
        –
      
      
        ”
      
      
        18.6
      
      
        ”
      
      
        21.7
      
    
    
      
        RD 1.5
      
      
        –
      
      
        ”
      
      
        18.6
      
      
        ”
      
      
        29.0
      
    
    
      
        R3
      
      
        –
      
      
        ”
      
      
        32.6
      
      
        ”
      
      
        36.0
      
    
    
      
        R4
      
      
        –
      
      
        ”
      
      
        32.6
      
      
        ”
      
      
        54.0
      
    
  
	The total number of dwelling units within an RPD District located in an “H”
Hillside or Mountainous Area established pursuant to Section 12.32–H of this
Code, shall not exceed the density indicated on the General Plan for such area
or the maximum number of dwelling units permitted by the underlying zone or
zones within such district pursuant to the above schedule, whichever is less,
and only detached single family dwellings or townhouses shall be the types of
housing permitted thereon.	3.	Area or District.	a.	Every RPD District shall have
an area of 3 acres or more exclusive of public streets. Provided, however, that
an RPD District may have an area of 5,000 square feet, or the minimum lot area
required by the zone, whichever is greater, or more, exclusive of public
streets, whenever the underlying zone of such district is in the RD6, RD5, RD4,
R2, RD2, RD1.5, R3, or R4 Zone.	b.	The Commission and the City Council may
approve an RPD District having an area less than required herein if said
district adjoins and will constitute an integral part of an existing RPD
District and the proposed development is in harmony with that permitted in the
existing RPD District, the existing and proposed plans for adjacent areas and
the General Plan. In no event may the proposed RPD District be approved with an
average density exceeding that permitted in the existing RPD
District.	E.	Standard Residential Conditions.  The following standard
residential conditions shall apply to each RPD District. In addition, after
report and recommendation by the Commission, the Council may, by ordinance,
impose any other conditions as it deems necessary and proper at the time of
establishing such district. In its report to the Council relative to the
establishment of an RPD District, the Commission may recommend such other
conditions as it deems necessary or desirable in carrying out the general
purpose and intent of this section. The standard residential conditions are as
follows:	1.	Final Subdivision Map or Parcel Map. No building permit shall be
issued for any building within an RPD District, except for sales models,
recreational buildings or community facilities, unless a Final Subdivision Tract
Map or Parcel Map has first been recorded for the property on which the building
is located.	2.	Coverage. The Commission shall recommend to the City Council the
proportion of the total development site to be covered by buildings and
structures.	3.	Separation Between Buildings. The Commission shall recommend to
the City Council the minimum separation between all buildings in the development
but in no event shall there be less than 20 feet of space between townhouse
buildings of two or more stories.	4.	Open Space. Common open space shall
comprise at least 25 per cent of the land area exclusive of streets, provided,
however, that where the applicant submits evidence to the satisfaction of the
Commission that the particular development will contain compensatory
characteristics which will provide as well or better for planned unit
development within the intent of this section, the Commission may recommend
modification of said requirements to the Council. At least half of the required
common open space shall be of not more than 15% slope.	The common open space
shall be land within the total development site used for recreational, park or
environmental purposes for enjoyment by occupants of the development, but shall
not include public streets, driveways, utility easements where the ground
surface cannot be used appropriately for common open space, private yards and
patios, parking spaces nor other areas primarily designed for other operational
functions.	5.	Private Streets. Private streets shall not be permitted in RPD
developments.	6.	Parking. There shall be at least two automobile parking spaces
for each townhouse or detached single family dwelling in a residential planned
development. Said spaces shall be provided in a private garage. There shall be
at least two off-street parking spaces per dwelling unit provided for other
residential buildings. Provided, however, that in an “H” Hillside or
Mountainous Area there shall be at least three off-street automobile parking
spaces provided for each dwelling unit in a residential planned development. In
the case of a townhouse or detached single family dwelling, two of the said
required three parking spaces shall be provided in a private garage. Provided,
further, that the Commission in connection with any residential planned
development may recommend to the Council such additional number of spaces as it
deems necessary to adequately provide for the needs within the district. For
non–residential buildings, the Commission may recommend to the Council the
number of parking spaces required, but if no such determination is made, the
provisions of Section 12.21–A of this code shall apply.	7.	Utilities. All new
utility lines, pursuant to Section 17.05N, and all new off-site service utility
lines, necessary to serve the development, shall be installed
underground.	8.	Townhouses. The width of each townhouse in the project shall
average at least 20 feet. There shall be a separate private yard with a total
area of at least 320 square feet adjacent to each townhouse unless equivalent
alternate arrangement of patios or roof decks are provided within the
preliminary plot plan, and approved by ordinance. No building shall contain more
than eight townhouses.	9.	Separate Lots. No portion of land within a residential
planned development shall be divided or separated in ownership unless it is
first recorded as a separate and distinct lot on a recorded final Subdivision
Tract Map or Parcel Map.	Every lot for a residential building (except a detached
single family dwelling or townhouse), church, school, hospital or infirmary
shall have a minimum width of 50 feet and a minimum area of 5,000 square feet,
or such additional widths or areas as may be required by the Commission and the
Council. Each such lot shall front for a distance of at least 20 feet upon a
street.	All lots for detached single family dwellings in the project shall be at
least 35 feet wide and said lots shall have a minimum area of 3500 square feet
or such additional areas or widths as may be required by the Commission and the
Council in the ordinance establishing the district. Each such lot shall front
for a distance of at least 20 feet upon a street.	Each townhouse lot in the
project shall average at least 20 feet in its narrowest dimension. Said lots
shall have a minimum area of 1750 square feet or such additional areas or widths
as may be required by the Commission and the Council in establishing an RPD
District. Provided, however, that where the underlying zone of a lot for a
townhouse is in the R3 or R4 Zone said lot may have an area of at least 1,000
square feet or such additional area as may be required by the Commission and the
Council. Any lot for a townhouse need have only such access or street frontage
as is shown on the approved final development plans.	10.	Separate Units. Every
owner of a dwelling unit or lot shall own as an appurtenance to such dwelling
unit or lot, either, (1) an undivided interest in the common areas and
facilities, or (2) a share in the corporation, or voting membership in an
association, owning the common areas and facilities.	11.	Maintenance. The right
to maintain the buildings and use the property for a residential planned
development shall continue in effect only so long as all of the mutually
available features, such as recreational areas, community buildings,
landscaping, as well as the general appearance of the premises and buildings are
all maintained in a first class condition and as indicated on the approved Final
Development Plans.	12.	Covenants. The provisions of Standard Condition 11 shall
be included in the conditions, covenants, and restrictions applying to the
property, which are recorded in the Office of the County Recorder and copies of
said provisions shall be furnished to the individual purchasers of units in the
development.	The provisions of Standard Condition 11 shall also be in each of
the preliminary and final drafts of the conditions, covenants, and restrictions
submitted to the Real Estate Commissioner.	13.	Sale of Lots or Units. No
dwelling unit or lot shall be sold or encumbered separately from an interest in
the common areas and facilities in the development which shall be appurtenant to
such dwelling unit or lot. No lot shall be sold or transferred in ownership from
the other lots in the total development, or approved phase of the development,
unless all approved community buildings, structures, and recreational facilities
for the total development, or approved phase thereof, have been completed, or
completion is assured, by bonding or other method satisfactory to the Advisory
Agency.	14.	Management Agreement. No lot or dwelling unit in the development
shall be sold unless a corporation, association, property owners group or
similar entity has been formed with the right to assess all those properties
which are jointly owned with interests in the common areas and facilities in the
development to meet the expenses of such entity, and with authority to control,
and the duty to maintain all of said mutually available features of the
development. Such entity shall operate under recorded conditions, covenants and
restrictions which shall include compulsory membership of all owners of lots
and/or dwelling units, and flexibility of assessments to meet changing costs of
maintenance, repairs and services. The developer shall submit evidence of
compliance with this requirement to and receive the approval of the Advisory
Agency prior to making any such sale. This condition shall not apply to land
dedicated to the City for public purposes.	*15.  Low and Moderate Income
Dwelling Units. (Added by Ord. No. 145,927, Eff. 6/3/74.) Every residential
planned development shall provide low and moderate income dwelling units as
provided in Section 12.39** of this code.	* If any provision of this ordinance,
or the application thereof to any person, property or circumstance, is held
invalid, the remainder of this ordinance, or the application of such provisions
to other persons, property or circumstances, shall not be affected thereby.	**
Section 12.39 was repealed by Ord. No. 180,308 Eff. 12/7/08.	F.	Final
Development Plans.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.) 
Any final development plans shall be in substantial conformance with the
preliminary plans.  Prior to the issuance of any permits for the erection or
enlargement of any buildings within an established RPD District, final precise
site and elevation plans for all buildings and landscaping within the district
or approved phase of the development, shall be submitted to and approved by the
Zoning Administrator and to the Area planning Commission on appeal.  If the
original action establishing an RPD District included the submission and
approval of final precise plans for the complete development, building permits
may be issued in accordance with those plans.  In connection with the review of
final development plans, deviations in any of the conditions previously
established may be authorized pursuant to the provisions of Subsection I of this
section.	G.	Permits – No permit shall be issued for grading, or for the
erection, enlargement or maintenance of buildings or structures for a
residential planned development, and no person shall perform any such
development or construction work, except in full compliance with the final
development plans approved as herein provided.	No building permit shall be
issued for other than approved model units until the conditions, covenants, and
restrictions required by Section 13.04-E,12 have been submitted to and approved
by the City Attorney.	H.	Termination of Districts – Any authority to establish
or maintain an RPD district pursuant to the provisions of this section shall
terminate: (1) within one and one–half years after the effective date of the
ordinance establishing such district unless a tentative subdivision map of the
proposed development has been filed; (2) within two years of the tentative map
approval, unless construction work on the first phase of the development has
begun; (3) unless such work is carried on diligently to completion.	Upon
termination of a district, the Zoning Map shall be corrected by removing the
district symbol.	I.	Changes and Modifications. After an ordinance establishing
an RPD District, and all of the conditions applicable thereto have been adopted
by the City Council, the procedure for modifying such conditions shall be the
same as that required for the establishment of an RPD District. If approved by
the Council, the request for modification of such conditions shall be
effectuated by the adoption of an ordinance amending the original ordinance
establishing the particular district.
