                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

“G” SURFACE MINING OPERATIONS DISTRICTS. (§ 13.03)

  “G” SURFACE MINING OPERATIONS DISTRICTS.
	(Title and Sec. Amended by Ord. No. 173,106, Eff. 3/5/00.)	A.	Purpose and
Objectives.  The City recognizes that the extraction of Minerals is essential
to the continued economic well-being of the City and to the needs of society.	It
is the purpose of this section to:	Establish reasonable and uniform limitations,
safeguards, and controls in the City for the future production of Minerals to
safeguard the public interest;	Permit production in all Districts irrespective
of the regulations of the Comprehensive Zoning Plan;	Provide for the Reclamation
of Mined Lands in order to prevent or minimize adverse effects on the
environment and to protect the public health and safety;	Recognize that Surface
Mining Operations take place in diverse areas where the geologic, topographic,
climatic, biological, and social considerations are significantly
different;	Recognize that Reclamation to return Mined Lands to a usable
condition which is readily adaptable for alternative land uses are significantly
different and that their specifications may vary accordingly;	Ensure the
continued availability of important Mineral resources, while regulating Surface
Mining Operations as required by the Act;
	Effect practices which will provide for more economic conservation and
production of Minerals; and	Take into consideration the surface use of land, as
such uses are indicated by:	The value and character of the existing improvements
within 500 feet of Districts where production is permitted;	The desirability of
the area for residential, recreation, watershed, wildlife, aesthetic enjoyment,
or other uses; or	Other factors directly relating to the public health, comfort,
safety, and welfare in Districts.	When the provisions of this section are more
restrictive than the correlative state provisions, the provisions of this
section shall control.	B.	Definitions.  The following definitions shall apply
to this section:	Abandonment of Operation.  Failure to conduct Surface Mining
Operations, either under Permit or as a Vested right, for a period of nine
consecutive months.	Act.  The Surface Mining and Reclamation Act (SMARA) of
1975 (Public Resources Code Section 2710 et seq.), as amended; Public Resources
Code Section 2207 relating to annual reporting requirements; and State Board
regulations for Surface Mining Operations and Reclamation practice (California
Code of Regulations [CCR], Title 14, Division 2, Chapter 8, Subchapter 1,
Sections 3500 et seq.)	Borrow Pit.  An excavation created by Surface Mining
Operations of rock, unconsolidated geologic deposits, or soil to provide
material (Borrow) for fill elsewhere.	Commission.  (Added by Ord. No. 173,492,
Eff. 10/10/00.)  Commission shall mean the City Planning Commission.	Completed
Operations (Completion of Operations).  When all rock and gravel in commercial
quantities is entirely extracted, produced, and removed from a property within a
District, or the operations allowed by Permit are Completed, whichever occurs
first.	District.  Any Surface Mining Operations District established pursuant
to the provisions of this section.	Exploration.  The search for Minerals by
geological, geophysical, geochemical or other techniques, including but not
limited to sampling, assaying, drilling, or other surface or underground works
needed to determine the type, extent, or quality of Minerals present.	Idle. 
Mineral production, with the intent to resume those Surface Mining Operations at
a future date.	Mined Lands.  The surface, subsurface, and ground water of an
area in which Surface Mining Operations will be, are being, or have been
conducted, including private ways and roads appurtenant to any such area; land
excavations; workings; Mining Waste; and areas in which structures, facilities,
equipment, machines, tools, or other materials or property which result from, or
are used in, Surface Mining Operations are located.	Mineral.  Any naturally
occurring chemical element or compound or groups of elements and compounds
formed from inorganic processes and organic substances, including but not
limited to coal, peat, and bituminous rock, but excluding geothermal resources,
natural gas, and petroleum.  Minerals shall specifically include rock, sand,
gravel, aggregate, and clay.	Mining Waste.  The residual of soil, rock,
Mineral, liquid, vegetation, equipment, machines, tools, or other matters or
property directly resulting from or displaced by Surface Mining
Operations.	Operator.  Any Person who is engaged in Surface Mining Operations
or who contracts with others to conduct Surface Mining Operations on his or her
behalf, except a Person who is engaged in Surface Mining Operations as an
employee with wages as his or her sole compensation.	Overburden.  Soil, rock,
or other Minerals that lie above a natural Mineral deposit or in between Mineral
deposits before or after their removal by Surface Mining Operations.	Owner. 
The holder of fee title to property in a District, and lessees, Permittees,
assignees, or successors in interest to the holder of fee title.	Permit.  Any
formal authorization from, or approval by, a lead agency, the absence of which
would preclude Surface Mining Operations.	Permittees.  Holder of a
permit.	Person.  In addition to the definition contained in Section 11.01 of
this Code, Person shall include any city, county, district, or the state of
California, or any department or agency of and of them.	Prospecting. 
Exploration.	Reclamation.  The combined process of land treatment that
minimizes water degradation, air pollution, damage to aquatic or wildlife
habitat, flooding, erosion, and other adverse effects from Surface Mining
Operations, including adverse surface effects incidental to underground mines,
so that Mined Lands are reclaimed to a usable condition which is readily
adaptable for alternative land uses and create no danger to public health or
safety.  The processes may extend to affected lands surrounding Mined Lands and
may require backfilling, grading, resoiling, revegetation, soil compaction,
stabilization, and/or other measures.	SMARA.  The Surface Mining and
Reclamation Act of 1975, as amended. The Act.	State Board.  The state Mining
and Geology Board in the Department of Conservation, State of California.	State
Geologist.  The individual designated pursuant to Section 677 of the California
Public Resources Code or any amendment to that Code.	Stream Bed Skimming. 
Excavation of sand and gravel from stream bed deposits above the mean summer
water level or stream bottom, whichever is higher.	Surface Mining
(Operations).  All or any part of the process involved in the mining,
quarrying, and/or excavating of Minerals on Mined Lands by removing Overburden
and mining directly from the Mineral deposits; open pit mining of materials
naturally exposed; mining by auger method, dredging, and quarrying; or surface
work incidental to an underground mine.  Surface Mining Operations shall also
include, but are not limited to: processing of Minerals; in place distillation,
retorting, or leaching; the production and disposal of Mining Wastes;
Prospecting and exploratory activities; Borrow Pitting; Streambed Skimming; and
segregation and stockpiling of mined Minerals and the recovery of
same.	Vested.  A project that diligently commenced Surface Mining Operations
and incurred substantial liabilities for work and materials, prior to January 1,
1976, in good faith and reliance upon an authorization, if one was required. 
Expenses incurred in obtaining the enactment of an ordinance or issuance of an
authorization relating to a particular Surface Mining Operation shall not be
deemed liabilities for work or materials.	C.	Establishment of Districts.	1.	The
provisions of this section shall apply to Districts where Surface Mining
Operations are Permitted.  The Council may establish new Surface Mining
Districts and alter the boundaries of Districts now or hereafter established,
provided they are consistent with any existing Surface Mining Operations
Permits.	2.	For the boundaries of Districts, see the maps on file in the
Planning Department.	D.	Permits.	1.	A Permit for Surface Mining Operations shall
be issued only for property located in a Surface Mining District.	2.	No Permit
shall be required for those Persons who have obtained a Vested right to continue
Surface Mining Operations prior to January 1, 1976.  However, no substantial
change may be made in the Surface Mining Operation without securing a new
Permit.  These Surface Mining Operations shall be subject to those limitations
set forth in Subdivision 4 of this subsection, and any conditions imposed by the
City Planning Commission (“Commission”) or Council on any pre-existing
Permit.	3.	No Person shall engage in Surface Mining Operations without having
obtained a Permit issued by the Commission or Council to engage in Surface
Mining Operations, approval of a Reclamation plan, and approved financial
assurances for Reclamation.	4.	All Surface Mining Operations, whether under
Permit or Vested, shall be conducted subject to the following
conditions:	(a)	All equipment used in Surface Mining Operations shall be
constructed, maintained, and operated in such a manner as to eliminate, as far
as practicable, noise, vibration, odor, smoke, dust, and the like, which are
injurious or annoying to Persons living or working in the vicinity.	(b)	No
Surface Mining Operations shall be Permitted closer than 50 feet to the boundary
of a District; closer than 500 feet to any residentially zoned property unless a
landscaped berm is constructed and maintained along the property line, in which
case the setback may be 50 feet; closer than 50 feet to the boundary of an
adjoining property, unless Surface Mining Operations are Permitted on the
adjoining property, in which case the property may be excavated to the property
line with the written consent of the adjacent Owner; or closer than 50 feet to a
Street (including an alley or walk), Highway, or freeway.  If the Commission or
Council finds that these criteria would be impracticable due to the small extent
of the District, economically infeasible, or not required by the Surface Mining
Operation, the Commission or Council may waive these requirements in whole or in
part.	(c)	No Surface Mining Operations from an open pit shall be Permitted which
creates a final perimeter slope steeper than one foot horizontal to one foot
vertical.	(d)	Surface Mining Operations shall be conducted in accordance with
applicable standards of the Regional Water Quality Control Board and/or any
other agency with jurisdiction over water quality	(e)	Mined Lands shall be
enclosed along their exterior by a fence, wall, landscaping, berm, or
combination of these features, which shall screen the Surface Mining Operations
from adjoining property.  Enclosures shall be designed, constructed, and
maintained to be consistent with the Flood Hazard Management Specific Plan.  If
the Commission determines that the enclosure would be impracticable because of
the location of the Mined Lands in the bed or flood channel of a wash or water
course, or because one or more boundaries are located immediately adjacent to M2
or less restrictively zoned property, this requirement may be waived by the
Commission.	(f)	Whenever production on any Property is Abandoned or Surface
Mining Operations Completed, all plants, buildings, structures (except fences),
and equipment shall be entirely removed from the property, and all stockpiles
shall be removed or backfilled into the pit within one year of Abandonment of
Operations or completion of Surface Mining Operations.  This provision shall
not apply to any plants, buildings, structures, or equipment whenever any rock
and gravel or other Minerals are available in the same District from other
properties owned by the Operator which is processing by or through any of these
plants, buildings, structures, or equipment.	(g)	No Surface Mining Operations
shall be conducted on any property except between the hours of 6 a.m. and 8
p.m., except in case of an emergency or whenever any reasonable or necessary
repairs to equipment are required to be made. Surface Mining Operations in an
M-3 zone and more than 1,200 feet from any residential use may be conducted
between the hours of 5 a.m. and 10 p.m.	(h)	Every Operator, before commencing
Surface Mining Operations within any District, shall be insured to the extent of
$500,000 against liability arising from Surface Mining Operations or activities
incidental to them.  The insurance shall be kept in full force and effect
during the period of Surface Mining Operations, including Reclamation.	(i)	In
granting Surface Mining Operations Permits, the Commission or Council:	(1)	Shall
impose other and further conditions and limitations regarding Surface Mining
Operations as are set forth in the General Plan and any applicable specific
plans.  Special emphasis shall be given to applicable community
plans.	(2)	Shall impose other and further conditions as are authorized by the
Act, are authorized by policies adopted by the State Board, or which are
necessary for the public health, safety, and welfare.	(3)	May impose other
conditions to address the circumstances of any individual District or its
surroundings.  In the case of conflicts between the conditions of this section
and those of Subparagraphs (1) and (2) above, the more restrictive shall
control.	E.	Application.  An application for a Permit to conduct Surface Mining
Operations shall contain at a minimum the following information:	1.	Site
Analysis:	(a)	A comprehensive soils engineering and engineering geologic
investigation report prepared by a registered civil engineer and a certified
engineering geologist, who shall not be employees of the applicant.  The report
shall indicate the type and features of Overburden and Minerals expected to be
extracted and Mining Waste generated by the proposed Surface Mining Operations,
and recommendations relative to setbacks, slopes, and excavations.	(b)	A
geographic report which shall include a recent aerial photograph of the site of
the proposed Surface Mining Operations, and a map or maps and notes which
illustrate the following:	(1)	Property lines and lease lines, including a legal
description of the site.	(2)	The existing topography of the site and land within
500 feet of the site, and any structures, watercourses, levees, drainage
facilities, utility easements and facilities, roads, and driveways existing
within this area.	(3)	The location and condition of any Abandoned pits and
previously mined areas on the site.	(4)	Any other information that may be
required to adequately characterize the site.	2.	Operations Analysis:	(a)	A
description of the proposed Surface Mining Operations in all of its phases. 
The document shall include the following:	(1)	A phasing plan and schedule
showing the approximate starting date, the proposed increments of extraction,
and the sequence in which these increments will be accomplished.	(2)	A map of
the areas to be excavated and typical cross sections of slopes to be formed or
modified.	(3)	The depth of all proposed excavations.	(4)	The location of all
proposed structures, including processing plants and appurtenant equipment and
fences, and their various relocation sites, where these facilities are proposed
to be relocated during the Permit period.	(5)	Existing
vegetation.	(6)	Landscaping to be provided, if any, in addition to that
indicated on the Reclamation plan.	(7)	Details of plans for storage of
Overburden and Mining Waste, including maps showing areas anticipated to be used
for storage.	(8)	Proposed points for ingress and egress, haul roads, driveways,
and parking areas on the site.	(b)	A drainage and erosion control plan.  This 
document shall illustrate the following:	(1)	The location and approximate depth
of proposed settling basins, desilting ponds, recycling ponds, and other bodies
of water.  Where these facilities are proposed to be relocated over the course
of the life of the Permit, their various proposed locations shall be
shown.	(2)	The historic groundwater level and anticipated annual fluctuation of
water levels in all areas to be excavated.	(3)	Methods to be taken for the
disposition of drainage and for the control of erosion and
sedimentation.	(4)	Provisions to be taken for the conservation and protection of
groundwater.	(5)	Approvals obtained or required from the appropriate Regional
Water Quality Control Board.	(6)	Any other information that may be required to
adequately characterize drainage and erosion.	(c)	A vehicular access plan. 
This document shall illustrate the following:	(1)	The points of ingress and
egress to the site; the Streets and Highways to be used by vehicles going to and
coming from the site; and the type, size, and number of vehicles anticipated on
a daily basis.	(2)	Minimizing or precluding additional vehicular traffic over
local residential Streets.	(d)	Any other information that may be required to
adequately characterize vehicular access.	3.	Reclamation Plan:	(a)	If portions
of the information and documentation is included in the site analysis and/or
operations analysis, the Reclamation plan may refer to the site analysis and/or
operations analysis.  The Reclamation plan shall include:	(1)	The names and
addresses of the Operator.	(2)	The names and addresses of each Owner of any
interest in the site on which Surface Mining Operations are or will be operated,
the names and addresses of any Persons designated by the Operator as his agents
for the service of process, and the name and address of the managing
employee.	(3)	The anticipated quantity and type of Minerals to be
extracted.	(4)	The estimated time schedules for initiation and termination of
Surface Mining Operations.  An Operation under a Vested right shall also
include a description of Surface Mining Operations occurring subsequent to
January 1, 1976, including the type and quantity of Minerals extracted and
location and depth of the surface drilling operations.	(5)	The maximum
anticipated depth of Surface Mining Operations.	(6)	The size and legal
description of lands that will be affected by the anticipated Surface Mining
Operation (affected lands shall include as a minimum all land within 500 feet of
the Surface Mining Operation); a map that includes the boundaries and
topographic details of these lands; a description of the general geography of
the area; a detailed report of the geology and hydrology of the area in which
Surface Mining Operations are to be conducted; the location of all streams,
roads, railroads, and utility easements and facilities within and adjacent to
these lands; the location of all proposed access roads to be constructed in
conducting these Surface Mining Operations; and the names and addresses of the
Owners of all surface interests and Mineral interests in the lands.	(7)	A
description of the anticipated Surface Mining Operations and an estimated time
schedule showing anticipated completion of each segment of these Surface Mining
Operations, so that Reclamation can be initiated at the earliest possible time
on those portions of the Mined Lands that will not be subject to further
disturbance by the Surface Mining Operations.	(8)	A description of the proposed
use or potential uses of the Mined Lands after Reclamation; the consent of the
Owner to the Reclamation and proposed use; and evidence that all Owners of a
possessory interest in the land have been notified of the proposed use or
potential uses.	(9)	A description of the manner in which Reclamation of the
land, adequate for the proposed use or potential uses, will be accomplished,
including:	(i)	The manner in which contaminants will be controlled and Mining
Waste will be disposed of.	(ii)	The manner in which rehabilitation of affected
stream channels and stream banks to a condition minimizing erosion and
sedimentation will occur.	(iii)	A topographic map showing final contours of the
property after Reclamation.	(iv)	A diagram showing how Reclamation will be
coordinated with the Surface Mining Operations.	(v)	A plan showing the types and
location of revegetation to be used as part of the Reclamation.	(vi)	A ground
water hydrology plan and a surface water drainage plan.	(vii)	An estimate of the
cost of Reclamation.	(viii)	An assessment of the effect the proposed Reclamation
activity may have on future mining in the area.	(ix)	The Person submitting a
Reclamation plan shall prepare and sign a statement accepting responsibility for
reclaiming the Mined Lands in accordance with the Reclamation plan.  This
statement shall be kept by the Department of City Planning (“Department”) in
the Operator’s permanent record. Upon sale or transfer of the Surface Mining
Operation, the new Operator shall prepare and submit a signed statement of
responsibility to the Department for placement in the permanent record.	(x)	The
Reclamation plan shall be applicable to a specific piece of property or
properties; shall be based upon the character of the surrounding area and
characteristics of the property such as type of Overburden, soil stability,
topography, geology, climate, stream characteristics, and principal Mineral
commodities; and shall establish site-specific criteria for evaluating
compliance with the approved Reclamation plan, including topography,
revegetation, and sediment and erosion control.	(xi)	The environmental setting
of the site of Operations and the effect that possible alternate reclaimed site
conditions may have upon the existing and future uses of surrounding
lands.	(xii)	The impact on the public health and safety, giving consideration to
the degree and type of present and probable future exposure of the public to the
site.	(xiii)	The designed steepness and proposed treatment of Mined Lands’
final slopes shall take into consideration the physical properties of the slope
material, its probably maximum water content, landscaping requirements, and
other factors.  In all cases, Reclamation plans shall specify slope angles
flatter than the critical gradient for the type of material involved. Whenever
final slopes approach the critical gradient for the type of material involved,
an engineering analysis of slope stability shall be required.  Special emphasis
shall be placed on slope stability and design when public safety or adjacent
property may be affected.	(xiv)	Areas mined to produce additional materials for
backfilling and grading, as well as settlement of filled areas.  Where ultimate
site uses include roads, building sites, or other improvements sensitive to
settlement, the Reclamation plan shall include compaction of the fill materials
in conformance with Section 91 of the Municipal Code.	(xv)	Disposition of old
equipment.	(xvi)	Temporary stream or watershed diversions.	(xvii)	All
Reclamation plans shall comply with the Act. Reclamation plans approved after
January 15, 1993; Reclamation plans for proposed new Surface Mining Operations;
and any substantial amendments to previously approved Reclamation plans shall
also comply with performance standards of the Act.	(xviii)	Any other information
that may be required to adequately characterize the Reclamation.	(b)	Time for
Performance.	(1)	Reclamation activities shall be initiated at the earliest
possible time on those portions of the Mined Lands that will not be subject to
further disturbance.	(2)	Interim Reclamation may be required for Mined Lands
that have been disturbed and that may be disturbed again in future Surface
Mining Operations.	(3)	Phasing:	(i)	Reclamation may be done on an annual basis,
in stages compatible with continuing Surface Mining Operations, or on completion
of all excavation, removal, or fill, as approved by the Commission or
Council.	(ii)	Each phase of Reclamation shall be specifically described in the
Reclamation plan, and shall include the beginning and ending dates for each
phase, all Reclamation activities required, criteria for measuring completion of
specific Reclamation activities, and estimated costs for each phase of
Reclamation.	(4)	The Reclamation plan shall be implemented no later than six
months after Surface Mining Operations are Completed, or a Permit or Vested
right to conduct surface Mining Operations has been Abandoned.	(c)	Financial
Assurances.	(1)	To ensure that Reclamation will proceed in accordance with the
approved Reclamation plan, the City shall require as a condition of approval
financial assurances which will be released upon satisfactory performance.  The
applicant may pose security in the form of a surety bond, trust fund,
irrevocable letter of credit from an accredited financial institution, or other
method satisfactory to the City Attorney and State Board as specified in state
regulations; and which the City reasonably determined is adequate to perform
Reclamation in accordance with the Surface Mining Operation’s approved
Reclamation plan.  Financial assurances shall be made payable to the City of
Los Angeles and the state Department of Conservation.	(2)	Financial assurances
shall be required to ensure compliance with elements of the Reclamation plan,
including but not limited to revegetation and landscaping requirements,
restoration of aquatic or wildlife habitat, restoration of water bodies and
water quality, slope stability and erosion and drainage control, disposal of
hazardous materials, and other measures if necessary.	(3)	Cost estimates for
financial assurances shall be submitted to the Department for review and
approval prior to the Operator securing financial assurances.  The Director
shall forward a copy of the cost estimates, together with any documentation
received supporting the amount of cost estimates, to the state Department of
Conservation for review.  If the state Department of Conservation does not
comment within 45 days of receipt of these estimates, it shall be assumed that
the cost estimates are adequate, unless the City has reason to determine that
additional costs may be incurred. The Director shall have the discretion to
approve the financial assurance if it meets the requirements of this section and
the Act.	(4)	The amount of the financial assurance shall be based upon the
estimated costs of Reclamation for the years or phases stipulated in the
approved Reclamation plan, including any maintenance of reclaimed areas as may
be required, subject to adjustment for the actual amount required to reclaim
lands disturbed by Surface Mining Operations in the upcoming year.  Cost
estimates should be prepared by a California registered Professional Engineer
and/or other similarly licensed and qualified professionals retained by the
Operator and approved by the Director.  The estimated amount of the financial
assurance shall be based on an analysis of physical activities necessary to
implement the approved Reclamation plan, the unit costs for each of these
activities, the number of units of each of these activities, and the actual
administrative costs.  Financial assurances to ensure compliance with
revegetation, restoration of water bodies, restoration of aquatic or wildlife
habitat, and any other applicable element of the approved Reclamation plan shall
be based upon cost estimates that include but may not be limited to labor,
equipment, materials, mobilization of equipment, administration, and reasonable
profit by a commercial Operator other than the Permittee.  A contingency factor
of ten percent shall be added to the cost of financial assurances.	(5)	In
projecting the costs of financial assurances, it shall be assumed without
prejudice or insinuation that the Surface Mining Operation could be Abandoned by
the Operator, and consequently, the City or state Department of Conservation may
need to contract with a third party commercial company for Reclamation of the
site.	(6)	The financial assurances shall remain in effect for the duration of
the Surface Mining Operation and any additional period until Reclamation is
Completed,  including any maintenance required.	(7)	The amount of financial
assurances required of a Surface Mining Operation for any one year shall be
adjusted annually to account for new lands disturbed by Surface Mining
Operations, inflation, and Reclamation of lands accomplished in accordance with
the approved Reclamation plan. The financial assurances shall include estimates
to cover Reclamation for existing conditions and anticipated activities during
the upcoming year, excepting that the Permittee may not claim credit for
Reclamation scheduled for completion during the coming year.	(8)	Revisions to
financial assurances shall be submitted to the Director each year prior to the
anniversary date for approval of the financial assurances.  The financial
assurance shall cover the cost of existing disturbance and anticipated
activities for the next calendar year, including any required interim
Reclamation.  If revisions to the financial assurances are not required, the
Operator shall explain, in writing, why revisions are not required.	(9)	Any
other information that may be required to adequately characterize the financial
assurances.	4.	Environmental analysis as required by the California
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) and the City’s CEQA
Guidelines.	F.	Procedure.	1.	The application for Permit shall be processed as
provided in Section 12.24 of this Code for conditional uses under the
jurisdiction of the Commission, subject to the exceptions of Subdivisions 2
through 5 of this subsection (procedures for state review).	2.	Within 30 days of
the date the application is determined to be complete, a copy of the site
analysis, operations analysis, and Reclamation plan shall be sent to the state
Department of Conservation.	3.	Whenever Surface Mining Operations are proposed
in the 100- year floodplain, as shown in Zone A of the Flood Insurance Rate Maps
issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, and within one mile, upstream
or downstream, of any state highway bridge, within 30 days of the date the
application is determined to be complete, a copy of the site analysis,
operations analysis, and Reclamation plan shall be sent to the state Department
of Transportation.	4.	State Department of Conservation.	(a)	Prior to taking any
action to approve, conditionally approve, or deny an application submitted under
this section, the Commission or Council shall certify to the state Department of
Conservation that the site analysis, operations analysis, Reclamation plan, and
financial assurances comply with the applicable requirements of state law, and
shall submit them to the state Department of Conservation for review.	(b)	The
state Department of Conservation is allowed 30 days under state law to review
and comment on the site analysis, operations analysis, and Reclamation plan. 
The state Department of Conservation is allowed 45 days under state law to
review and comment on the financial assurances.  Time limits of this code shall
be suspended during these comment periods.	(c)	If the state Department of
Conservation fails to comment within the statutory time periods, the Commission
or Council shall not interpret this failure as either approval or disapproval of
the site analysis, operations analysis, Reclamation plan, or financial
assurances.	5.	Evaluation of Comments.	(a)	The Commission or Council shall
evaluate any written comments by the state Department of Conservation received
during the statutory comment periods.  Time limits of this code shall be
suspended during the Commission’s or Council’s evaluation.	(b)	A written
response to the state Department of Conservation’s comments shall be prepared
for the Commission’s or Council’s approval.  If the Commission’s or
Council’s position differs from the Department of Conservation’s comments,
the written response shall address in detail why specific comments were not
accepted.	(c)	Copies of any written comments received, and responses prepared,
by the Commission or Council shall be promptly forwarded to the Owner and/or
Operator.	6.	Commission or Council Decision.  Within 30 days of the date of
Paragraph (b) of Subdivision 5 above (regarding the Commission’s or
Council’s responses to the state Department of Conservation), the Commission
or Council shall approve, conditionally approve, or deny the site analysis,
operations analysis, Reclamation plan, and/or financial assurances.	7.	A Permit
shall not be effective until 15 days after approval by the Commission, or after
approval by the Council if the Council approval is a result of an appeal or
transfer of jurisdiction.	G.	Findings.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,095, Eff.
5/7/12.)  A Permit shall be approved if the Commission or Council
finds:	1.	that the project complies with the Act and with the policies of the
State Board for Surface Mining Operations;	2.	that the proposed Surface Mining
Operations will not be detrimental to the public health, safety, and
welfare;	3.	that the proposed Surface Mining Operations are in substantial
conformance with the purposes, intent and provisions of the Open Space and the
Conservation Elements of the General Plan;	4.	that the drainage and erosion
control plan is adequate to protect the public health, safety, and
welfare;	5.	that the vehicular access plan is adequate to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare;	6.	that the project substantially conforms with the
purposes, intent and provisions of the General Plan, the applicable community
plan, and with any applicable specific plan;	7.	that a written response to the
State Department of Conservation has been prepared, describing the disposition
of major issues raised by the Department of Conservation, and where the City’s
position differs from the recommendations and objections raised by the
Department of Conservation, the response has addressed, in detail, why specific
comments and suggestions were not accepted; and	8.	that regarding the
Reclamation plan:	(a)	that it complies with the Act and with the policies of the
State Board for Reclamation practice;	(b)	that it is compatible with and shall
not adversely affect or further degrade adjacent properties, the surrounding
neighborhood, or the public health, welfare, and safety;	(c)	that the land
and/or resources such as water bodies to be reclaimed will be restored to a
condition that is compatible, and blends in with the surrounding natural
environment, topography, and other resources; or that suitable off-site
development will compensate for related disturbance to resource value;
and	(d)	that the Reclamation plan will restore the Mined Lands to a usable
condition that is in substantial conformance with the purposes, intent and
provisions of the Open Space and Conservation Elements of the General
Plan.	H.	Appeal.	1.	The signing of statements required by Subsection G of this
section shall not in any way affect rights to appeal the determination in whole
or in part.	2.	Appeals shall be processed as provided in Section 12.24 of this
Code for conditional uses under the jurisdiction of the Commission.	3.	An
applicant whose request for a Permit to conduct Surface Mining Operations in an
area of statewide or regional significance (as determined by the State Board)
has been denied, or any Person who is aggrieved by the granting of a Permit in
an area of statewide or regional significance, shall have rights of appeal to
the State Board as may be granted by the Act.  In the case of conflicts between
the determination of the Commission or Council and the determination of the
State Board, the determination of the State Board shall
control.	I.	Exceptions.  A Permit, financial assurances, and Reclamation plan
are not required for:	1.	Excavation or grading conducted for farming or on-site
construction, or for the purpose of restoring land following a flood or a
natural disaster.	2.	Prospecting or Exploration for Minerals of commercial value
where Overburden in the amount of less than 1,000 cubic yards is removed in any
one location of one acre or less.	3.	Prospecting for, or the extraction of,
Minerals for commercial purposes, and the removal of Overburden in total amounts
of less than 1,000 cubic yards in any one location of one acre or
less.	4.	Surface Mining Operations that are required by federal law in order to
protect a mining claim, if the Operations are conducted solely for that
purpose.	5.	Other Surface Mining Operations as the Commission determines to be
of an infrequent nature, involve only minor surface disturbances, and are
identified by the State Board pursuant to the Act.	6.	Onsite excavation and
onsite earth-moving activities which are an integral and necessary part of a
construction project, which are undertaken to prepare a site for construction of
structures, landscaping, or other land improvements, including the related
excavation, grading, compaction; or creation of fills, road cuts, and
embankments, whether or not surplus materials are exported from the site,
subject to all of the following conditions:	(a)	All required permits for the
construction, landscaping, or related land improvements have been approved by a
public agency in accordance with applicable provisions of state law and locally
adopted plans and ordinances.  This provision shall include compliance with
CEQA and the City’s CEQA Guidelines.	(b)	The City’s approval of the
construction project included consideration of the onsite excavation and onsite
earth-moving activities pursuant to CEQA and the City’s CEQA Guidelines.  In
those instances where CEQA analysis has not otherwise been applied to the
project, the procedures, although not the threshold, of Section 91.7006.8 (CEQA
grading review) of the Municipal Code shall be followed.	(c)	The approved
construction project is consistent with the General Plan and zoning of the
site.	(d)	Surplus materials shall not be exported from the site unless and until
actual construction work has commenced.  Export shall cease if it is determined
that construction activities have terminated, have been indefinitely suspended,
or are no longer being actively pursued, except as provided in the procedures,
although not the threshold, of Section 91.7006.7.4 (CEQA grading review) of the
Municipal Code.	7.	Operation of a plant site used for Mineral processing,
including associated onsite structures, equipment, machines, tools, or other
materials, including the onsite stockpiling and onsite recovery of mined
Minerals, subject to all of the following conditions:	(a)	The plant site is
located in an area designated in the Land Use Element of the General Plan with a
designation corresponding to the M3 Zone.	(b)	The plant site is located on land
zoned M3.	(c)	None of the materials being processed are being extracted onsite;
and	(d)	All Reclamation work has been Completed pursuant to the approved
Reclamation plan for any Mineral extraction activities that occurred before
January 1, 1976.	8.	The solar evaporation of sea water or bay water for the
production of salt and related Minerals.	9.	Emergency excavations or grading
conducted by the state Department of Water Resources or the Reclamation Board
for the purpose of averting, alleviating repairing, or restoring damage to
property due to imminent or recent floods, disasters, or other emergencies,
and	10.	Persons who have obtained a Vested right to continue Surface Mining
Operations prior to January 1, 1976, providing that:	(a)	No substantial change
may be made in the Surface Mining Operation without securing a new Permit. The
Surface Mining Operations shall be subject to those limitations set forth in
this section, and to any conditions imposed by the Commission or Council in any
pre-existing Permit or authority to conduct the Operations.	(b)	Persons with
Vested rights shall submit to the Commission within six months after receipt of
notice from the City a Reclamation plan for lands mined after January 1, 1976. 
The Reclamation plan shall be subject to review, hearing and approval by the
Commission as provided in Subsection F of this section.	(c)	However, where a
Person with Vested rights has continued Surface Mining Operations in the same
area subsequent to January 1, 1976, he or she shall obtain the commission’s
approval or the approval of council on appeal of a Reclamation plan covering the
Mined Lands disturbed by the subsequent Surface Mining Operations. In those
cases where an overlap exists (in the horizontal and/or vertical sense) between
pre-and post-Act mining, the Reclamation plan shall call for Reclamation
proportional to that disturbance caused by the Mining Operations after the
effective date of the Act.	(d)	All other requirements of state law and this
section shall apply to Vested Surface Mining Operations.	11.	Nothing in this
section shall be construed as requiring the reapproval of a Reclamation plan
which is in substantial conformity with the Act, approved prior to the effective
date of this section.	J.	Amendments.  Amendments or changes to an approved
Permit or Reclamation plan shall be submitted to the Commission and shall become
effective only if approved by the Commission.  Substantial deviations from the
approved Permit or Reclamation plan shall be processed in the same manner as
provided for in Subsection F of this section.	K.	Public Record.  Reclamation
plans, reports, applications for Permits, and other documents as described in
Section 2778 of the Public Resources Code are public records unless it can be
demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Commission that the release of all or
part of the information would reveal production reserves or rate of depletion
entitled to protection as proprietary information.  Proprietary information
shall be made available only to the State Geologist and to Persons authorized in
writing by the Operator and/or the Owner.	L.	Successors.  Each subsequent Owner
and/or Operator of a premise covered by a Permit, whether by sale, assignment,
transfer, conveyance, exchange, or other means, shall be bound by the provisions
of the approved Reclamation plan, the provisions of this section, and the
Act.	M.	Inspections.	1.	The Director shall inspect each Surface Mining Operation
at least once a year, within six months of receipt of the annual report required
in Subsection O of this section, to determine whether the Surface Mining
Operation is in compliance with the approved site analysis, operations analysis,
and/or Reclamation plan; approved financial assurances; and state regulations. 
The inspections may be made by a state-registered geologist, state-registered
civil engineer, state-licensed landscape architect, or state-registered
professional forester, who is experienced in land Reclamation of the type
described in the Reclamation plan, and who has not been employed by the Surface
Mining Operation in any capacity during the previous 12 months; or other
qualified specialists, as selected by the Director.  All inspections shall be
conducted using a form approved by the State Board.  A fee as established by
Section 19.01I of this Code shall be charged for this inspection.  The
Department shall transmit a copy of the inspection report to the state
Department of Conservation within thirty days of completion of the
inspection.	2.	The Director may authorize the Superintendent of Building to
inspect each Surface Mining Operation at least once a year.  An annual
inspection fee as established by Section 98.0402(e)3 of this Code shall be
collected by the Superintendent.  An inspection may also be made by the
Superintendent whenever a complaint is received by him or her concerning a
violation of the municipal code and/or its Permit.  The Superintendent shall
send notice of the inspection, and his or her findings, to the Director within
five days of the performance of the inspection.	3.	If a Surface Mining Operation
inspected by the Superintendent of Building is found to be in violation of any
provision of the municipal code and/or its Permit, the Superintendent shall send
a notice to comply to the Operator within two weeks of the inspection, in
accordance with the provisions of Section 12.26 of this Code.  The notice to
comply shall clearly state the following:	(a)	The violation shall be corrected
by a compliance date specified in the notice, and shall be no more than 30 days
from the date the notice is mailed.	(b)	The compliance date as specified in the
notice may be extended for no more than 45 days if the Operator presents
satisfactory evidence to the Superintendent of Building that unusual
difficulties prevent substantial compliance without an extension.	N.	Interim
Management Plan.	1.	Within 90 days of a Surface Mining Operation becoming Idle,
the Operator shall submit to the Department a proposed Interim Management Plan
(IMP.) The proposed IMP shall fully comply with the requirements of the Act, and
shall provide measures the Operator will implement to maintain the site in a
stable condition, taking into consideration public health and safety.  The
proposed IMP shall be processed in accordance with the provisions of Subsection
J of this section (amendments).  IMPs shall not be considered a project for the
purposes of complying with CEQA and the city’s CEQA Guidelines.	2.	Financial
assurances for Idle operations shall be maintained as though the operation were
active.	3.	Upon receipt of a complete proposed IMP, the Department shall forward
the IMP to the state Department of Conservation for review.  The IMP shall be
submitted to the state Department of Conservation at least 30 days prior to
approval under Subsection J of this section (amendments).	4.	Within 60 days of
the receipt of the IMP, or a longer period mutually agreed upon by the Director
and the Operator, the IMP shall be reviewed and approved, conditionally
approved, or denied.	5.	The IMP shall remain in effect for a period not to
exceed five years, at which time the Commission may renew the IMP for another
period not to exceed five years, or require the Surface Mining Operator to begin
Reclamation in accordance with its approved Reclamation plan.	O.	Annual
Report.  Surface Mining Operators shall forward an annual Surface Mining
Operations report to the state Department of Conservation and to the Department
on a date established by the state Department of Conservation, upon forms
furnished by the State Board.  New Surface Mining Operations shall file an
initial Surface Mining Operations report and any applicable filing fees with the
state Department of Conservation within 30 days of Permit approval, or before
commencement of operations, whichever is sooner.  Any applicable fees, together
with a copy of the annual inspection report, shall be forwarded to the state
Department of Conservation at the time of filing the annual Surface Mining
Operations report.
