                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

“CDO” COMMUNITY DESIGN OVERLAY DISTRICT. (§ 13.08)

  “CDO” COMMUNITY DESIGN OVERLAY DISTRICT.
	(New Sec. 13.08 Added by Ord. No. 172,032, Eff. 6/29/98.)	A.	Purpose.  This
section sets forth procedures and standards for the establishment of Community
Design Overlay Districts throughout the City.  The purpose of the Community
Design Overlay district is to:	1.	Assure that development within communities is
in accordance with community design policies adopted in the Community Plans, and
with the Community Design Guidelines and Standards;	2.	Promote the distinctive
character, stability and visual quality of existing neighborhoods and
communities by ensuring that development visually provides a sense of place in
terms of design within the Community Design Overlay District by considering the
unique architectural character and environmental setting of the
district;	3.	Assist in improving the visual attractiveness of multi-family
housing available to meet the needs of all social and economic groups within the
community;	4.	Protect areas of natural scenic beauty,  cultural or
environmental interest;	5.	Prevent the development of structures or uses which
are not of acceptable exterior design or appearance; and	6.	Protect the
integrity of previously attained entitlements.	7.	Provide for on-going community
involvement in project design and evolution of guidelines.	B.	Establishment of
District.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  The City
Council may establish new districts, or change boundaries of districts, by
following the procedures set forth in Section 12.32S of this Code.  A district
may encompass all or portions of the area of a community plan, as recommended by
the policies of that plan.  Precise boundaries are required at the time of
application or initiation of an individual Community Design Overlay District. 
A Community Design Overlay District shall not encompass an area designated as an
Historic Preservation Overlay Zone pursuant to Section 12.20.3 of this
Code.	C.	Definitions.  For the purpose of this section, the following words and
phrases are defined as follows:	1.	Design Overlay Plans.  A document or
documents which pictorially describe, by professionally accepted architectural
graphic techniques, the location, appearance, configuration and dimensions of
any proposed buildings, structures and site improvements including but not
limited to landscaping, walls and fences, roof equipment, pole signs, monument
signs, and parking areas.	2.	Project.  The erection, construction, addition to,
or exterior structural alteration of any building or structure, including, but
not limited to, pole signs and/or monument signs located in a Community Design
Overlay District.  A Project does not include construction that consists solely
of  (1)  interior remodeling, interior rehabilitation or repair work;  (2) 
alterations of, including structural repairs, or additions to any existing
building or structure in which the aggregate value of the work, in any one
24-month period, is less than 50 percent of the building or structure’s
replacement value before the alterations or additions, as determined by the
Department of Building and Safety, unless the alterations or additions are to
any building facade facing a public street; or  (3)  a residential building on
a parcel or lot which is developed entirely as a residential use and consists of
four or fewer dwelling units, unless expressly provided for in a Community
Design Overlay District established pursuant to this section.	3.	Citizen
Advisory Committee.  A committee appointed by the Councilmember(s) pursuant to
Subsection D2 of this section in whose District a Community Design Overlay
District is established, who shall assist the Planning Department in the
development of Design Guidelines and Standards.	D.	Approval of Guidelines and
Standards.  In establishing any individual Community Design Overlay District,
the Director of Planning shall prepare, and the City Planning Commission shall
approve by resolution, Community Design Guidelines and Standards applicable to
design overlay areas.  These Guidelines and Standards shall be adopted or
amended according to the following procedures and criteria:	1.	Initiation. 
Preparation or amendment of the Guidelines and Standards may be initiated by the
Director of Planning, the City Planning Commission or City
Council.	2.	Preparation and Content.  Upon initiation, the Director shall
prepare, or cause to be prepared, proposed Guidelines and Standards based on the
design policies contained in the Community Plan.  At the option of the Council
District, the Director shall utilize Advisory Boards in the development of
design standards for individual communities and neighborhoods.  The Guidelines
and Standards shall be organized into those which are anticipated to be
superseded by future citywide standards, and those that are necessary to protect
the unique architectural and environmental features of the Community Design
Overlay District.	The Guidelines and Standards are in addition to those set
forth in the planning and zoning provisions of Los Angeles Municipal Code (LAMC)
Chapter I, as amended, and any other relevant ordinances and do not convey any
rights not otherwise granted under the provisions and procedures contained in
that chapter and other relevant ordinances, except as specifically provided
herein.	Furthermore, nothing in the Guidelines and Standards shall interfere
with any previously granted entitlements, nor shall they restrict any right
authorized in the underlying zone or height district.	At the option of the
Councilmember(s), a Citizen Advisory Committee shall be appointed to assist in
development of Guidelines and Standards.  The Citizen Advisory Committee shall
be appointed by the Councilmember in whose district the Community Design Overlay
District is established, and the committee shall consist of a minimum of five
and a maximum of seven voting members, each serving a term of office of four
years, the terms being staggered so that at least one term becomes vacated on
each successive year.  The chairperson and vice chairperson shall be elected
annually by a majority of the committee.  The suggested composition of
membership is as follows: two architects and two professionals from the
following or related fields: planning, urban design and landscape architecture,
or construction.  The remaining member or members need not be design
professionals.  All members shall reside, operate a business, or be employed
within the community plan area(s) in which the Community Design Overlay District
is located.	3.	Commission Hearing and Notice.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268,
Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  The proposed or amended Guidelines and Standards
shall be set for a public hearing before the City Planning Commission or a
hearing officer as directed by the City Planning Commission prior to the
Commission action.  Notice of the hearing shall be given as provided in Section
12.24D2 of this Code.	4.	Reports.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00,
Oper. 7/1/00.)  If a hearing officer is designated to conduct the public
hearing, after the conclusion of the hearing, the hearing officer shall submit
his report to the City Planning Commission within a period of time as may be
fixed by the Commission, setting forth his or her conclusions and
recommendations in writing and stating briefly the reasons therefor.	5.	Decision
by City Planning Commission.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  The City Planning Commission shall, by resolution, approve, modify or
disapprove the proposed Guidelines and Standards.  If the City Planning
Commission fails to act within 75 days from the receipt of the report and
recommendation of the Planning Department, the proposed Guidelines and Standards
shall be automatically submitted to the City Council for action.  In approving
the Guidelines and Standards, the City Planning Commission or Council shall find
that they are consistent with the policies of the adopted Community Plan and the
purposes of this section.	E.	Design Overlay Plan Approvals.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  Within a Community Design Overlay
District, no building permit shall be issued for any project, and no person
shall perform any construction work on a Project, until a Design Overlay Plan
has been submitted and approved according to the following procedures.  No
building permit shall be issued for any project, and no person shall do any
construction work on a project except in conformance with the approved Design
Overlay Plan.	EXCEPTION:	No Design Overlay Plan approval shall be required for
any project until  the Guidelines and Standards have been approved.	1.	Approval
Authority.  The Director of Planning, or his or her designee, shall approve or
conditionally approve Design Overlay Plans if the plans comply with the
provisions of approved Community Design Guidelines and Standards.  An approval
of a Design Overlay Plan by the Director of Planning, or his or her designee,
shall be appealable to the Area Planning
Commission.	2.	Procedures.	(a)	Application.  An application for a Design
Overlay Plan approval shall be filed with the Department of City Planning on the
prescribed form, and shall be accompanied by any required materials.  The
application shall not be considered complete unless and until the form has been
properly completed, all required information has been provided and the filing
fee set forth in Section 19.01T of this Code has been paid.	(b)	Action of
Director.  The Director of Planning, or his or her designee, shall make a
determination within 20 working days from the date of the filing of a completed
application and the payment of the applicable fee.  This time limit may be
extended by mutual written agreement of the applicant and the
Director.	(c)	Transfer of Jurisdiction.  If the Director or his or her designee
fails to make a determination within the prescribed time period, the applicant
may file a request for a transfer of jurisdiction to the Area Planning
Commission for a determination on the original application, in which case, the
Director shall lose jurisdiction.  This request shall be filed in the public
office of the Department of City Planning.  Once filed, the request and the
Department file shall be transmitted to the Area Planning Commission for
action.	3.	Findings.  The Director of Planning, or the Area Planning Commission
on appeal, shall approve a Design Overlay Plan as requested or in modified form
if, based on the application and the evidence submitted, if the Director or Area
Commission determines that it satisfies all of the following
requirements:	(a)	The project substantially complies with the adopted Community
Design Overlay Guidelines and Standards.	(b)	The structures, site plan and
landscaping are harmonious in scale and design with existing development and any
cultural, scenic or environmental resources adjacent to the site and in the
vicinity.	4.	Notice of Director’s Determination.  Within five working days
following the decision, a Notice of the Director’s Determination, and copies
of the approved plans, shall be mailed to the applicant, the Councilmember in
whose district the Project is located, the Citizen Advisory Committee, and any
persons or organizations commenting on the application or requesting a
Notice.	5.	Effective Date and Appeal.	(a)	The Director’s determination shall
become effective and final 15 days after the date of mailing the Notice of
Director’s Determination to the applicant, unless an appeal is filed with the
Area Planning Commission within that period.	(b)	An applicant, member of the
City Council, or any other interested person adversely affected may appeal the
Director’s decision to the Area Commission.  Appeals shall be processed in
the manner prescribed in Section 16.05H of this Code, except as otherwise
provided here.	6.	Notice to Building and Safety.  The Director of Planning
shall notify the Department of Building and Safety of the final approval action
of the Design Overlay Plan.
