                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

“S” ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING DISTRICTS. (§ 13.02)

  “S” ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING DISTRICTS.	A.	Application.  The provisions of
this section shall apply to the districts wherein animal slaughtering is
permitted.	B.	Conditions.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  In the ordinance establishing an animal slaughtering district, the
Council may impose conditions as it deems necessary and proper.  In its report
to the Council relative to the establishment of a district, the City Planning
Commission may suggest conditions for consideration.	C.	(Initiative Ordinance
No. 10,999, as amended by Ordinance No. 36,675, (N.S.) repealed by voters April
5, 1977).	D.	Other Districts.  In addition to the districts established by
Subsection C. of this section, other districts within which animal slaughtering
is permitted and the conditions applying thereto shall be subject to the
approval of development plans by the Administrator.  (Amended by Ord. No.
177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)	1.	(Deleted by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff.
12/18/05.)	E.	Development Plans.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00,
Oper. 7/1/00.)  Prior to the erection or enlargement of any building in any
animal slaughtering district and prior to the development of an animal
slaughtering plant in a new district established in accordance with the
provisions in this section, plans for the use shall first be submitted to and
approved by the Zoning Administrator.  In approving the plans, the Zoning
Administrator may require changes and additional improvements in connection with
the proposed development as he or she deems necessary in order to give effect to
the provisions of this section and to other provisions of this chapter relating
to zoning, and which are not in conflict with the conditions specified in the
ordinance establishing the district. Any determination by the Zoning
Administrator may be appealed to the Area Planning Commission as provided for in
Section 12.24B through I.	F.	Permits – No permit shall be issued for the
development of an animal slaughtering plant, or for the erection, enlargement or
maintenance of buildings for animal slaughtering purposes, and no person shall
perform any such development or construction work, except in full compliance
with plans approved by the Administrator as herein provided.
