                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

MIXED USE DISTRICT. (§ 13.09)

  MIXED USE DISTRICT.
	(New Sec. 13.09 Added by Ord. No. 172,171, Eff. 9/27/98.)	A.	Purpose.  The
purpose of the is to implement the General Plan by encouraging land uses that
combine Commercial Uses and dwelling units in order to reduce vehicle trips and
vehicle miles traveled by locating residents, jobs, and services near each
other; to improve air quality through a reduction of vehicle trips and vehicle
miles traveled; to support the transit system; to promote economic vitality and
the revitalization of areas of special need; to provide for a variety of housing
opportunities, including senior housing; to improve the efficiency of public
services, systems, and utilities; to promote design quality and flexibility; and
to promote pleasing and interesting urban form and architecture.  Areas
proximate to mass transit stations and major bus routes are appropriate
locations for Mixed Use Districts.	B.	Establishment of
District.	1.	Requirements.  A Mixed Use District may only include lots in the
R5, CR, C1, C1.5, C2, C4, or C5 zones.  Lots in the R3 or R4 zones may also be
included in a Mixed Use District if they (1) abut a designated major or
secondary highway; and (2) are also located in a Community Plan designated
regional or community center.	A Mixed Use District shall contain no less than
one Block Face.  The total acreage in a Mixed Use District shall include
contiguous parcels of land which may only be separated by public streets,
alleys, or other physical features, or as determined by the Director of
Planning, or his/her designee.  Precise boundaries are required to be
delineated at the time of application or initiation of an individual rezoning
application to Mixed Use District.	A Mixed Use District shall be consistent with
the intent and purposes of the applicable Community Plan.  If, as determined by
the Director of Planning or his/her designee, the provisions of this section
conflict with those of an adopted specific plan, then the provisions of the
specific plan shall prevail.  If the provisions of this section conflict with
any other citywide regulations except an adopted specific plan, then the
provisions of this section shall prevail.  If “Q” or “D” limitations
have been imposed on a lot, then the most restrictive requirement shall
prevail.	2.	Standard Provisions and Permitted Modifications.  In establishing
an individual Mixed Use District, all of the standard provisions set forth in
Subsection C, Uses; Subsection D, Yards; Subsection E, Development Incentives;
Subsection F, Development Standards; and Subsection G, Pedestrian Orientation,
shall apply.	However, based on an appropriate consideration of the proposed
district’s character, needs, and development potential, and the goals,
objectives, and policies set forth in the applicable Community Plan, some of the
standard provisions set forth in Subsections C or E may be eliminated or
modified, as further described below.	3.	Definitions.  Notwithstanding any
other provision of this article to the contrary, the following definitions shall
apply to this section:	Automotive Uses means automobile and trailer sales areas,
automobile dismantling yards, automotive fueling and service stations, and
automotive repair uses as defined in Section 12.03.	Block Face is a lot or a
group of lots that abuts on at least three sides a public street or other
physical feature, or as determined by the Director of Planning, or his or her
designee.	Building Frontage means the maximum length of a line or lines formed
by connecting the points representing projections of the exterior building walls
onto a public street or onto a courtyard that is directly accessible by
pedestrians from a public street, whichever distance is greater.	Central Parking
Structure is a parking structure or surface lot accessible to and available for
use by the public and identified as a Central Parking Structure in the
individual ordinance establishing the Mixed Use District.	Commercial Uses means
those uses as first permitted in the CR, C1, C1.5, C2, C4, or C5 zones,
including guest rooms and hotels as defined in Section 12.03 and Community
Facilities as defined by this section.	Community Facilities means the following
uses as first permitted by the CR zone and designed to serve the
community-at-large: non-profit museums or libraries; child or adult day care
facilities or nursery schools; churches or houses of worship (except rescue
missions or temporary revivals); community centers or meeting rooms owned and
operated by a governmental agency or non-profit organization; cultural centers
owned and operated by a governmental agency or non-profit organization; schools,
elementary or high; educational institutions; police substations; and
telecommuting centers.	Corner Lot means a lot located at the intersection of at
least two streets designated on the Transportation Element of the General Plan
as either a major, secondary, or other highway classification, or a collector
street.  At least one of the streets at the intersection must be a designated
highway.	Facade Treatment is a rooftop architectural embellishment such as a
Mansard roof that is constructed on the street-facing side of a Mixed Use
Project.	Ground Floor is the lowest story within a building which is accessible
from the street, the floor level of which is within three feet above or below
curb level.	Major Bus Center means the intersection of two bus routes, one of
which is a major bus route.	Major Bus Route means a bus route that is served by
bus lines with evening peak hour headways of fifteen minutes or less and shown
on a map approved by and reviewed annually by the City Planning Commission.  A
bus route is one that is currently in operation within the route network of the
Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority, its successor agencies
or other municipal transit operators but not including the City of Los
Angeles’ DASH system or its successor agencies.	Mass Transit Station is a
portal or platform at a transit stop for a fixed rail transit system.  Portal
means the street-level entrance, exit, or escalator.  A Mass Transit Station is
a facility that is currently in use, that a full funding contract for a proposed
station’s location and portals has been signed by all funding partners, or one
that a resolution to fund a preferred alignment has been adopted by the Los
Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority or its successor agency
which resolution details specific station and portal locations.	Mixed Use
Project means a Project which combines one or more Commercial Uses and multiple
dwelling units in a single building or in a Unified Development and which
provides the following:	(1)	a separate, Ground Floor entrance to the residential
component, or a lobby that serves both the residential and Commercial Uses
components; and	(2)	a pedestrian entrance to the Commercial Uses component that
is directly accessible from a public street, and that is open during the normal
business hours posted by the business.	A minimum of 35 percent of the Ground
Floor Building Frontage abutting a public commercially zoned street, excluding
driveways or pedestrian entrances, must be designed to accommodate Commercial
Uses to a minimum depth of 25 feet.	Pedestrian Amenities means outdoor sidewalk
cafes, public plazas, retail courtyards, water features, kiosks, paseos,
arcades, patios, covered walkways, or spaces for outdoor dining or seating that
are located on the Ground Floor, and that are accessible to and available for
use by the public.	Project means the construction of a commercial, residential,
or Mixed Use Project in a single building or in a Unified Development.	Unified
Development means a development of two or more buildings which have functional
linkages such as pedestrian or vehicular connections, with common architectural
and landscape features which constitute distinctive design elements of the
development, and that appears to be a consolidated whole when viewed from
adjoining streets.  Unified Developments may include two or more contiguous
parcels or lots of record separated only by a street or alley.	4.	Findings.  In
order to establish a Mixed Use District, the City Council must find that
adequate infrastructure exists (including, but not limited to, schools, streets,
and sewers) to support any added development permitted by the
district.	C.	Uses.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter to the
contrary, the following provisions shall apply:	1.	Community Facilities that are
part of a Mixed Use Project are permitted in the R3 or R4 zones if the lot or
lots abut a Major Bus Route.	2.	Commercial Uses that are part of a Mixed Use
Project are permitted on lots in the R5 zone, except Automotive Uses as defined
in Section 13.09 B 3 and open storage, including incidental open
storage.	3.	Projects comprised exclusively of dwelling units are not permitted
on lots in the CR, C1, C1.5, C2, C4, or C5 zone, except with the approval of the
Zoning Administrator pursuant to Section 12.27I23.  However, the individual
ordinance establishing a Mixed use District may amend this provision and permit
Projects comprised exclusively of dwelling units in all or parts of the
District.	4.	If the City Council finds that further restricting the uses in a
Mixed Use District is appropriate in light of the proposed district’s
character, needs, and development potential, and the goals, policies, and
objectives set forth in the applicable Community Plan, then the Council may do
so in the ordinance establishing the district.	D.	Yards.  Notwithstanding any
other provisions of this article to the contrary, the following yards shall
apply to Mixed Use Projects:	1.	The yards of the CR zone shall apply to the
non-residential component on lots in the R3 or R4 zones.	2.	The following yards
shall apply to lots in the R5 zone:	(a)	The yards of the C2 zone shall apply to
the non-residential component.	(b)	No yards shall apply to the residential
component if it abuts a street, private street, or alley.	E.	Development
Incentives.  Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter to the
contrary, the following development incentives shall apply in Mixed Use
Districts:	1.	Housing.  The individual ordinance establishing a Mixed Use
District shall establish an incentive for dwelling units in Mixed Use
Projects.  The amount of the incentive shall be based on an appropriate
consideration of the proposed district’s character, needs, and development
potential, and the goals, policies, and objectives set forth in the applicable
Community Plan.	The incentive shall be shown on the “Zoning Map” by use of
the capital letters “MU” for Mixed Use Projects and “C” for Commercial
Uses, preceded by the applicable numerical limits.  The first two-digit number
before the diagonal line shall indicate the maximum height permitted.  The
first number after the diagonal line, which may include a decimal fraction,
shall indicate the maximum permitted floor area ratio (FAR).  For example, a
Mixed Use District zoned C2 45/2.0-MU 35/1.5-C means that a Mixed Use Project
may not exceed a maximum height of 45 feet for the entire Project or an FAR of
2.0.  The Commercial Uses in a Mixed Use Project would be restricted to a
maximum FAR of 1.5.  Projects comprised exclusively of Commercial Uses would be
restricted to a maximum height of 35 feet and a maximum FAR of 1.5.  If the
letter “U” appears before the diagonal line instead of a number, then an
unlimited height is permitted.	(a)	If a height or FAR housing incentive would
result in a maximum height or FAR which exceeds that of the underlying base
zone, then the Project may not proceed until the height district of the base
zone is changed.	(b)	The minimum dwelling unit FAR for Mixed Use Projects with a
total FAR of 6.0 or greater is 1.5	(c)	The lot area requirements of the R5 zone
shall apply to Mixed Use Projects with a total FAR of 6.0 or
greater.	2.	Pedestrian Amenities.  Pedestrian Amenities shall not be included
in the calculation of permitted FAR.	3.	Parking.  If a proposed Mixed Use
District includes lots within 1,500 feet of a Mass Transit Station or Major Bus
Center, or lots within 750 feet of a Central Parking Structure, then the
individual ordinance establishing the Mixed Use District shall include a parking
incentive which specifies a reduction in the number of parking spaces required
by Section 12.21A4.  Provided, however, a minimum of two spaces for every 1,000
square feet of non-residential floor area shall be required.  In determining
the appropriate level of parking reduction, the City Council shall consider such
factors as local transit dependency and automobile usage, traffic, available
parking, and level of transit service, and the goals, policies, and objectives
set forth in the applicable Community Plan.	(a)	Transit Facilities.  The
transit facility incentive shall be restricted to dwelling units and Commercial
Uses in Mixed Use Projects within 1,500 feet of a Mass Transit Station or Major
Bus Center.	(b)	Central Parking Structures.  The Central Parking Structure
incentive shall be restricted to Commercial Uses within 750 feet of a Central
Parking Structure.  To make use of this incentive, the owner(s) of the Central
Parking Structure must execute and record in the Los Angeles County Recorder’s
Office, a covenant and agreement for the benefit of the City of Los Angeles
which provides that the required parking shall be maintained in perpetuity or
until the Director of Planning determines that it is no longer necessary.  This
incentive may not be combined with the transit facility incentive set forth in
(a) above.	(c)	Measurement of Distance.  Distance from a transit facility or
Central Parking Structure shall be measured as specified in Section
12.21A4(g).	(d)	Downtown Exceptions.  The parking incentive for dwelling units
as set forth in Section 13.09E3(a) above shall not be authorized in the Parking
Exception Area for the Central City as described in Section 12.21A4(p).  The
parking incentive for Commercial Uses as set forth in Section 13.09E3(a) and (b)
above shall not be authorized in the Downtown Business District Exception Area
as described in Section 12.21A4(I).	(e)	Affordable Housing.  The transit
facility and Central Parking Structure incentives set forth above shall not be
combined with the parking reduction provided for affordable housing as set forth
in Section 12.22A25(d)(2).	4.	Facade Treatments, Corner Lots, and Community
Facilities.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  Each Mixed Use
Project shall be entitled to one of the following incentives by right.  To
obtain an entitlement for two or more of these incentives, the approval of the
Zoning Administrator pursuant to Section 12.24W28 is required.	(a)	Facade
Treatments.  Unless eliminated or modified by the individual ordinance
establishing a Mixed Use District, if the maximum height otherwise permitted by
the underlying zone or established pursuant to Section 13.09E1 above is less
than 100 feet, then a Mixed Use Project is entitled to an increase in height of
no more than ten feet, provided that the additional height is used for a Facade
Treatment.	The individual ordinance establishing the Mixed Use District may not
modify the following restrictions:	(1)	The Facade Treatment incentive may not be
utilized on lots adjacent to or abutting an RW1 or more restrictive zone as
defined by Sections 12.04 or 12.23;	(2)	The Facade Treatment incentive may not
be combined with the Corner Lot incentive described in Paragraph (b) below;
and	(3)	The Facade Treatment incentive may not be used for signs or to increase
the floor area of a structure.	(b)	Corner Lots.  Unless eliminated or modified
by the individual ordinance establishing a Mixed Use District, a Mixed Use
Project on a Corner Lot is entitled to an increase in height, FAR, and
residential density for dwelling units that is 20 percent greater than what is
otherwise permitted by the underlying zone or what is established pursuant to
Section 13.09E1 above.	The individual ordinance establishing the Mixed Use
District may not modify the following restrictions:
	(1)	Unless a conditional use permit pursuant to Section 12.24 W 28 is also
obtained, a Mixed Use Project which secures an affordable housing density bonus
pursuant to California Government Code Section 65915 shall not also be entitled
to the Corner Lot incentive; and	(2)	The Corner Lot incentive may not be
utilized on lots adjacent to or abutting an RW1 Zone or a more restrictive zone
as defined by Sections 12.04 or 12.23.	(c)	Community Facilities.  Unless
modified by the individual ordinance establishing the Mixed Use District, no
more than 75 percent of the total floor area of a child or adult day care
facility, community meeting room, cultural center, museum or telecommuting
center shall be included in the calculation of permitted FAR.	5.	Mini-Shopping
Centers and Commercial Corner Developments.  (Amended by Ord. No. 172,350, Eff.
1/30/99.)  Mixed Use Projects are exempt from the regulations governing
Mini-Shopping Centers and Commercial Corner Developments as set forth in Section
12.22A23.	F.	Development Standards.  Notwithstanding the requirements of any
other provision of this chapter to the contrary, all Projects shall comply with
the following development standards.	1.	Landscaping and Surface Parking Lots. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 175,223, Eff. 6/30/03.)  Landscaping of Projects and
surface parking lots shall be provided in accordance with the requirements set
forth in Sections 12.41, 12.42, 12.43 and 12.22 A.23.(10)(ii) (mini-shopping
centers and commercial corner developments) of the Code.  Projects must also
comply with the following additional requirements:	(a)	Open Areas.  All open
areas not used for buildings, driveways, parking, recreational facilities, or
Pedestrian Amenities shall be landscaped by shrubs, trees, ground cover, lawns,
planter boxes, flowers, or fountains.	(b)	Pavement.  Paved areas, excluding
parking and driveway areas, shall consist of enhanced paving materials such as
stamped concrete, permeable paved surfaces, tile, and/or brick pavers.
	(c)	Street Trees.  At least one 24-inch box street tree shall be planted in
the public right-of-way on center, or in a pattern satisfactory to the Bureau of
Street Maintenance, for every 25 feet of street frontage.	2.	Open Space.  All
Projects shall comply with the open space requirements for six or more
residential units pursuant to Section 12.21G.	3.	Facade Relief.  Building
Frontage shall be designed to comply with the following requirements.  These
standards do not apply to accessory buildings, additions, remodels, or any
change of use in an existing building.	(a)	Horizontal architectural treatments
and/or facade articulations such as cornices, friezes, balconies, awnings,
Pedestrian Amenities, or other features shall be provided for every 30 feet of
building height visible from a street.	(b)	If a Project includes 40 or more feet
of Building Frontage visible from a street, then vertical architectural
treatments and/or facade articulations such as columns, pilasters, indentations,
or other features shall be provided for every 25 feet.  The minimum width of
each vertical break shall be eight feet and the minimum depth shall be two
feet.	4.	Signage.  Signage shall comply with the requirements of Section 12.22
A.23.(a)(6) (mini-shopping centers and commercial corner developments). 
(Amended by Ord. No. 175,223, Eff. 6/30/03.)	5.	Noise Control.  Any dwelling
unit exterior wall including windows and doors having a line of sight to a major
highway, secondary highway, or other designated highway shall be constructed so
as to provide a Sound Transmission Class of 50 or greater, as defined in the
Uniform Building Code Standard No. 35-1, 1979 Edition.  The developer, as an
alternative, may retain an acoustical engineer to submit evidence, along with
the application for a building permit, specifying any alternative means of sound
insulation sufficient to reduce interior noise levels below 45dBA in any
habitable room.	6.	Rooftop Appurtenances.  All ventilation, heating, or air
conditioning ducts, tubes, equipment, or other related rooftop appurtenances
shall be screened when viewed from adjacent streets.	G.	Pedestrian
Orientation.  The individual ordinance establishing a Mixed Use District, may
designate some or all of the lots in the district as “pedestrian
oriented.”  The decision as to which lots shall be designated as
“pedestrian oriented” shall be based on an appropriate consideration of the
proposed district’s character, needs, and development potential, and the
goals, policies, and objectives set forth in the applicable Community Plan.	The
following development standards, in addition to the development standards set
forth in Subsection F above, shall apply to all Projects constructed on lots
designated as pedestrian oriented.  These standards shall not apply to
accessory buildings, additions, remodels, or any change of use in an existing
building.	1.	Ground Floor Commercial Uses.  One hundred percent of the Ground
Floor Building Frontage abutting a public commercially zoned street, excluding
driveways or pedestrian entrances, shall be designed to accommodate Commercial
Uses to a minimum depth of 25 feet.	2.	Building Frontage.  Building Frontage
shall, for its first 15 feet of height, be located within five feet of the front
lot line and within five feet of a side yard lot line adjacent to a public
street and shall extend at least 65 percent of the length of the lot
line.	3.	Pedestrian Amenities.  Notwithstanding the Building Frontage
requirements in 2 above, if a Pedestrian Amenity is provided, the required
Building Frontage may be set back up to 15 feet along the portion of that
amenity.	4.	Location of Pedestrian Entrances.  Each individual tenant or
business space located on the Ground Floor shall have an entrance directly
accessible from the street at the same grade as the sidewalk, and the entrance
shall remain open during the normal business hours posted by the
business.	5.	Openings in Building Frontages for Vehicular Access.  Vehicular
access shall be provided from side streets or alleys if available.  Where side
street or alley access is not available, not more than one 20-foot wide driveway
shall be provided per 100 feet of Building Frontage, and not more than two
driveways shall be permitted per building.	6.	Parking.  Surface parking lots or
parking structures shall be located behind the required Building Frontage, in
the rear, interior portion of the lot that does not front on the
street.	7.	Transparency of Building Frontage.   Building Frontage shall comply
with the requirements of Section 12.22 A.23.(a)(3) (mini-shopping centers and
commercial corner developments).  (Amended by Ord. No. 175,223, Eff. 6/30/03.)
