                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PEDESTRIAN ORIENTED DISTRICT. (§ 13.07)

  PEDESTRIAN ORIENTED DISTRICT.
	(Added by Ord. No. 168,153, Eff. 9/13/92.)	A.	Purpose.  This section sets
forth procedures, guidelines and standards for establishment of  within
commercially zoned areas throughout the City. The purpose of the Pedestrian
Oriented District is to preserve and enhance existing areas or create new areas
where pedestrian activities are common, to encourage people to walk and shop in
areas near their workplaces and/or residences thereby reducing multiple
automobile trips, to reinforce and stimulate high quality future development
compatible with pedestrian uses, to reflect the characteristics of a particular
area  and to encourage pedestrian use during evenings and weekends, as well as
weekdays.	B.	Establishment of District.	1.	Requirements.  (Amended by Ord. No.
173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  The procedures set forth in Section
12.32S shall be followed except that each Pedestrian Oriented District (POD)
shall include only lots which are zoned either CR, C1, C1.5, C2, C4 or C5.  No
District shall contain less than one block or three acres in area, whichever is
the smaller.  The total acreage in the district shall include contiguous
parcels of land which may only be separated by public streets, ways or alleys,
or other physical features, or as set forth in the rules approved by the
Director of Planning.  Precise boundaries are required at the time of
application for or initiation of an individual POD.	2.	Pedestrian Oriented
Streets.  Pedestrian Oriented Streets shall be identified as part of the
adoption process of a specific POD. The following shall be utilized to identify
such streets: A Pedestrian Oriented Street is a public street where the Director
of Planning finds that the street has, or will have in the case of an
undeveloped area, at least two of the following characteristics at sidewalk
level:	(a)	The street has, or in the case of an undeveloped area will have, a
variety of commercial uses and activities;	(b)	A majority of the structures on
the street are, or in the case of an undeveloped area will be, of a similar size
and incorporate architectural details such as the location of windows, courts,
building interiors and pedestrian entrances which enhance a pedestrian
atmosphere;	(c)	The street has, or in the case of an undeveloped area will have,
amenities, such as street furniture. outdoor restaurants, open air sales,
arcades and the like, which are integrated with the public sidewalk in such a
way as to be conducive to pedestrian activity.	C.	Definitions.  For purposes of
this section, the following words and phrases are defined:	Blank Wall.  A blank
wall is any exterior building wall, including a garage opening or door which
fronts on the street and which is not enhanced by architectural detailing,
artwork, landscaping, windows, doors or similar features.	Building Frontage. 
Building Frontage is the maximum length of a line or lines formed by connecting
the points representing projections of the exterior building walls onto a public
street or onto a courtyard that is directly accessible by pedestrians from a
public street, whichever distance is greater.	Cultural Resource.  Cultural
resource is a structure officially recognized to have local, state, or national
significance or deemed eligible for inclusion on the National Register of
Historic Places with respect to its architectural and/or historical
characteristics and which is designated as such in the establishment of an
individual Pedestrian Oriented District.	Financially-Oriented Services. 
Financially-Oriented Services are the provision to the public of financial or
real estate services including, but not limited, to those offered by banks,
savings and loan associations, thrift associations, real estate offices,
insurance companies, brokerage firms and escrow offices.	Ground Floor.  Ground
floor is the lowest story within a building which is accessible to the street,
the floor level of which is within three feet above or below curb level, which
has frontage on or is primarily facing any Pedestrian Oriented Street, and which
is at least 20 feet in depth or the total depth of the building, whichever is
less.	Neighborhood Retail.  Neighborhood retail uses shall be limited to retail
sale of goods needed by residents and patrons of a Pedestrian Oriented District,
including:	Art galleries:	Art supplies;	Athletic/sporting goods:	Bakeries:	Books
or cards:	Bicycle sales and repairs:	Clock or watch sales and/or
repair:	Clothing	Computer sales and repair:	Drug stores:	Fabrics or dry
goods;	Florists,	Food/grocery stores, including supermarkets, produce, cheese
and meat markets and delicatessens:	Hardware:	Household goods and small
appliances:	Newsstands;	Photographic equipment and repair;	Sit Down Restaurants,
excluding drive-through service	Stationery:	Toys; and	Other similar retail goods
as determined by the Zoning Administrator.	Neighborhood Services.  Neighborhood
services are those services used by residents and patrons on a regular basis,
including:	Barber shop or beauty parlor;	Blueprinting;	Child care facility;	Club
or lodge, bridge club, fraternal or religious associations;	Copying
services;	Custom dressmaking;	Dry cleaner;	Financial services;	Laundry or
self-service laundromat:	Locksmith;	Optician;	Photographer;	Shoe repair;	Tailor:
and	Other similar services as determined by the Zoning Administrator.	Project. 
A Project is the erection or construction of any building or structure, on a lot
in the CR, Cl, Cl.5, C5, C4, and CS Zones, or addition of floor area to the
Ground Floor of any building on a CR, Cl, Cl.5, C2, C4 or C5 Zoned lot(s),
unless the building is used solely for residential dwelling
units.	D.	Application.  The district shall apply only to CR, Cl, Cl.5, C2, C4
and C5 Zoned lot(s) within a POD. In establishing any individual Pedestrian
Oriented District, the City Council may adopt all of the regulations contained
in Subsection E below, however, one or more of the standards set forth in these
regulations may be superseded by development standards established in the
individual Pedestrian Oriented District ordinance. An individual Pedestrian
Oriented District ordinance shall apply to a particular geographical area. In
the event that ordinance does not include new standards pertaining to
development, all of the standards set forth in Subsection E, hereof shall apply.
The regulations contained in this section are in addition to the use and area
regulations applicable to the underlying commercial zone. If the provisions of
this section conflict with any other city-wide regulations, then the
requirements of this section shall prevail.	E.	Development Regulations.  The
Department of Building and Safety shall not issue a building permit for a
Project within a Pedestrian Oriented District unless the Project conforms to all
of the following development regulations, or to the regulations in a specific
Pedestrian Oriented District ordinance, if applicable. The Department of
Building and Safety shall not issue a change of use permit for any use not
permitted in Paragraph 2 of this subsection.  (Added by Ord. No. 168,153, Eff.
9/13/92.)	1.	Building Frontages shall conform to the following
regulations:	(a)	Blank Walls.  Blank walls in excess of 10 feet in width shall
not be permitted. Blank walls shall be relieved by transparent windows, doors,
recessed entryways, recessed courtyards, planters, murals, mosaic tile, public
art and/or other means of creating visual interest.	(b)	Openings in Exterior
Walls of Buildings or Between Buildings for Vehicles.  Any opening in an
exterior wall of a building or between buildings for purposes of vehicular entry
shall not be permitted, except where it is determined by the Department of
Transportation that the location of these driveways cannot be practicably placed
elsewhere. Garage or parking lot entrances shall not be permitted on Pedestrian
Oriented Streets unless the Department of Transportation determines that there
is no other alternative to the location of the garage or parking lot
entrances.	(c)	Openings in Exterior Building Walls Not for Vehicles.  On
Pedestrian Oriented Streets, openings in exterior building walls or building
setbacks which are used for plazas or courtyards with outdoor dining, seating,
water features, kiosks, paseos, open air vending or craft display areas shall be
permitted. Building setbacks not used for the above listed permitted purposes
shall be fully landscaped.	(d)	Pedestrian Access.  All new developments
fronting on Pedestrian Oriented Streets shall provide at least one entrance for
pedestrians to each Ground Floor.	(e)	Pedestrian Views Into Buildings.  At
least 75 percent of the building frontage at the ground floor of a building
adjoining a Pedestrian Oriented Street shall be devoted to entrances for
pedestrians, display windows or windows affording views into retail, office or
lobby space. Non reflective glass shall be used to allow maximum visibility from
sidewalk areas into the interior of buildings.	(f)	Second Floors.  Building
frontage on the floor immediately above the ground floor shall be differentiated
from the ground floor by recessed windows, balconies, offset planes, awnings or
other architectural details, as determined by the Department of City
Planning.	(g)	Building Continuity With Openings.  In the event a building
opening of 15 feet in width or greater is permitted pursuant to 1 (b) and 1 (c)
of this subdivision, continuation of an architectural feature of the ground
floor building facade shall be required to retain continuity of a building wall
at the ground floor, as determined by the Department of City
Planning.	(h)	Requirement for Ground Floor.  Each building on a lot fronting on
a Pedestrian Oriented Street shall have a ground floor.	2.	Uses Permitted Along
The Ground Floor Building Frontage.  Any use permitted by the underlying zone
shall also be permitted on the Ground Floor, except that uses on the Ground
Floor along the Building Frontage shall conform to the following:	The floor area
on the ground floor of a commercial building along at least 75 percent of the
Building Frontage, excluding the frontage used for vehicular access to on-site
parking, shall be devoted to neighborhood retail and/or neighborhood services,
except that any Financially-Oriented Service may occupy only up to 50 percent of
the Ground Floor along the Building Frontage on each street frontage.	3.	Uses
Permitted Above The Ground Floor.  Any use permitted in the underlying zone
shall be permitted above the ground floor.	4.	Yards. Yard requirements shall be
as required by the underlying zone, unless otherwise specified in an individual
Pedestrian Oriented District ordinance.	5.	Height.	(a)	The height of a building
shall not exceed 40 feet. If the underlying zone otherwise permits a height in
excess of 40 feet, then any portion of the building above 40 feet in height,
including the roof and roof structure, shall be set back from the front lot line
at a 45 degree angle, for a horizontal distance of not less than 20
feet.	(b)	The height of a building adjacent to one or more cultural resources
shall not exceed a height that is within five feet of the weighted average
height of the adjacent cultural resource(s) or 30 feet, whichever is greater. If
the underlying zone otherwise permits a height above 30 feet, then any portion
of the building above 30 feet in height shall be set back from the lot line at a
45 degree angle, for a horizontal distance of not more than 20
feet.	6.	Parking.	(a)	No surface parking shall be permitted within 50 feet from
any Pedestrian Oriented Street right-of-way. The provisions of this paragraph
shall not apply if the Department of Transportation determines that there is no
other feasible alternative to the location of the parking.	(b)	Any surface
parking adjoining a Pedestrian Oriented Street shall be screened by a solid wall
having a continuous height of three and one-half feet. In addition, the wall
shall be separated from any adjacent public right-of-way by a minimum continuous
width of five feet of landscaped area. If an architectural theme has been
established for an individual POD, then the wall shall be compatible with that
theme. Surface parking lots shall be landscaped with shade trees at the ratio of
one tree for each four parking spaces.	(c)	All above-grade parking spaces
visible from a public right-of-way shall be screened architecturally or with
landscaping.	7.	Landscaping Standards.	(a)	Prior to the issuance of a building
permit, the Department of Planning shall approve a landscape plan for new
projects and parking areas. In approving this plan, the Department shall find
that trees, compatible in size and variety with (b) below, are planted in all
landscaped areas at the highest practical density and that planted windows
boxes, and hanging plant baskets and flower beds in parking lots are provided,
where possible. An overall landscape plan may be developed for each individual
POD to enhance a chosen theme or style.	(b)	Shade producing street trees shall
be planted, where feasible, at a ratio of at least one for each 25 feet of
frontage at a distance no greater than 10 feet from the curb. Elevated planters,
tree grates and tree guards shall be provided, where needed. Notwithstanding the
above, (i) the size, location and variety of trees shall be determined by the
Department of Public Works: (ii) where street lights are existing or proposed to
be installed, trees shall not be planted within 20 feet of the location of the
existing or proposed street light.	(c)	An automatic irrigation system shall be
provided for all landscaped areas including shade trees and shall be indicated
on landscape plans. Property owners shall maintain all landscaping in good
healthy condition and shall keep planted areas free of weeds and
trash.	8.	Special Theme or Other Provisions.  A special theme or architectural
style may be defined for an individual POD. Special requirements or guidelines
directed at preserving such theme may be adopted with the establishment of an
individual POD. Such requirements may include, but not be limited to, standards
pertaining to uniform theme lighting, art works, sculpture, landscaping, street
furniture, sidewalk design, and setbacks.	9.	Signs.	(a)	Notwithstanding any
provision of the Los Angeles Municipal Code to the contrary, no person shall
erect the following signs as defined in Section 91.6203 of the Los Angeles
municipal Code:	(i)	off-site commercial signs, except that existing legally
erected off-site commercial signs may be replaced on the same or a new site
provided that the location and sign otherwise meet all current ordinance
requirements of Division 62 (Signs), Section 91.6220 (Off-site signs);	(ii)	pole
signs,	(iii)	projecting signs; or	(iv)	roof signs advertising individual
businesses.	Signs advertising the entire POD are permitted if approved by the
Director of Planning.	(b)	Monument signs and information signs for individual
businesses may be approved as part of an overall POD plan or
design.	11.	Utilities.  Where possible, all new utility lines for any
individual building or proposed within a POD shall be installed
underground.	F.	Director’s Determination.  If a proposed Project fails to
meet the development standards in Subsection E above, or the standards in a
specific pedestrian oriented district ordinance, whichever are applicable, the
applicant may apply to the Director of Planning for a Director’s
Determination. Such application shall be filed in the public office of the
Department of City Planning upon a form prescribed for that purpose. The filing
fee shall be equivalent to that established for “Approval of plan required for
Supplemental Use District”, set forth in Section 19.01A of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code. The application shall be accompanied by architectural, landscape
and structural plans for the Project, or other information, to the satisfaction
of the Director of Planning. All ground floor uses for the Project shall be
clearly identified.	1.	Determination.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff.
7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  The Director or the Director’s designee shall make a
determination of approval or conditional approval within 25 days of the
Department’s acceptance of an application.  Notice of the Director’s
determination shall be mailed to the applicant, the Councilmember in whose
District the project is located, and to all owners and lessees of property
within a radius of 500 feet of the project.  The determination by the Director
shall include written findings in support of the determination.  In order to
approve a proposed construction project pursuant to this subsection, the
Director must find that:	(a)	If adjacent to a cultural resource that the project
will be compatible in scale (i.e., bulk, height, setbacks) to that
resource.	(b)	The project conforms with the intent of the development
regulations contained in Subsection E of this section.	(c)	The project is
compatible with the architectural character of the Pedestrian Oriented District
where the character is defined pursuant to the ordinance establishing that
district.	(d)	The project complies with theme requirements or other special
provisions when required in the individual Pedestrian Oriented District.	(e)	The
project is consistent with the General Plan.	2.	Appeals.  (Amended by Ord. No.
173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  The determination of the Director shall
become final after an elapsed period of 15 days from the date of mailing of the
determination to the applicant, unless an appeal is filed with the Area Planning
Commission within that period.   Appeals shall be processed in accordance with
Section 12.24B through I of this Code, except as otherwise provided
here.	3.	Notification to Department of Building and Safety.  When a
determination of the Director becomes final, the Director or Director’s 
designee shall send a written notice of the determination to the Department of
Building and Safety.  If the Director approves the Project, this approval shall
be so indicated on the building permit application and building plans.
