                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

“O” OIL DRILLING DISTRICTS. (§ 13.01)

  “O” OIL DRILLING DISTRICTS.	A.	Application.  (Amended by Ord. No.
173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  The provisions of this section shall
apply to the districts where the drilling of oil wells or the production from
the wells of oil, gases or other hydrocarbon substances is permitted.  The
provisions of this section shall not apply to the property in the M3 Zone,
except as specifically provided here to the contrary.  The provisions of this
section shall not apply to the location of subterranean gas holding areas which
are operated as a public utility and which are regulated by the provisions of
Section 14.00 of this Code.	B.	Definitions – For the purpose of this section
the following words and phrases are defined:	“Controlled Drilling Site”
shall mean that particular location within an oil drilling district in an
“Urbanized Area” upon which surface operations for the drilling, deepening
or operation of an oil well or any incidental operation are permitted under the
terms of this section, subject to the conditions prescribed by written
determination by the Zoning Administrator.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff.
7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)	“Drilling and Production Site in the Los Angeles City 
Oil Field Area” shall mean locations within an oil drilling district in the
“Los Angeles City Oil Field Area” upon which surface operations for the
drilling, deepening or operation of an oil well or any operation incident
thereto, are permitted under the terms of this section, subject to the
conditions prescribed by written determination by the Zoning Administrator. 
(Added by Ord. No. 156,166, Eff. 1/24/82.)	“Los Angeles City Oil Field Area”
shall mean all land in the City within the areas identified on the maps in
Ordinance No. 156,166 located in Council File No. 80-3951 and shall include all
oil producing zones beneath those areas but no deeper than the third zone
beneath the surface of the earth.  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff.
12/18/05.)	“Nonurbanized Area” shall mean all those portions of the City
which the City Planning Commission or Council has determined will not be
detrimentally affected by the drilling, maintenance, or operation of oil
wells.  In making its determination, the City Planning Commission, or the
Council on appeal, shall give due consideration to the amount of land
subdivided, the physical improvements, the density of population and the zoning
of the district.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)	“Offshore Area” shall mean all property in the City of Los Angeles
which is between the mean high tide line and the outermost seaward City
boundary. (Added by Ord. No. 126,825, Eff. 4/4/64.)	“Oil Well” shall mean
any well or hole already drilled, being drilled or to be drilled into the
surface of the earth which is used or intended to be used in connection with
coring, or the drilling for prospecting for or producing petroleum, natural gas
or other hydrocarbon substances, or is used or intended to be used for the
subsurface injection into the earth of oil field waste, gases, water or liquid
substances, including any such existing hole, well or casing which has not been
abandoned in accordance with the requirements of Article 7 of Chapter 5 of this
Code except that “Oil Well” shall not include “Temporary Geological
Exploratory Core Hole” as defined by Section 12.03 of this Code.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 123,618, Eff. 3/1/63.)	“Oil Well Class A” shall mean any oil well
drilled, conditioned arranged, used or intended to be used for the production of
petroleum.	“Oil Well Class B” shall mean any oil well drilled, conditioned,
arranged, used or intended to be used only for the subsurface injection into the
earth of oil field waste, gases, water or liquid substances.	“Producing
Zone” shall mean a reservoir or series of reservoirs of sufficient thickness
and productivity of hydrocarbons as to form an economic source of supply and
which is segregated from other reservoirs or series of reservoirs by natural
boundaries or barriers to such an extent as to make its separate development
either economically or mechanically desirable in accordance with good oil field
practice.  (Added by Ord. No. 147,651, Eff. 10/11/75.)	“Urbanized Area”
shall mean all land in the City, except land in the M3 Zone, and land which has
been determined to be “Nonurbanized Area” by the City Planning Commission or
Council or land located in the “Los Angeles City Oil Field Area”.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)	C.	Status of Areas.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  Where uncertainty exists as
to whether or not a particular area shall be continued as an urbanized area, any
person contemplating filing a petition for the establishment of an oil drilling
district, may prior to its filing, request the City Planning Commission to
determine the status of the area in which the proposed district is to be
located.  The Commission shall refer the request to the Director of Planning
for investigation and upon receipt of his or her report shall determine whether
the area is “Urbanized” or “Nonurbanized”.  The determination of the
City Planning Commission may be appealed to the Council, which may, by
resolution, approve or disapprove the determination.	D.	Requirements for
Filing:	1.	Non–urbanized Areas – Each application for the establishment of
an oil drilling district in an non–urbanized area shall include property
having a net area or not less than one acre (excluding public streets, alleys
walks or ways, except that an application may be filed on property containing
less than one acre which is surrounded on all sides by streets. Such property
may consist of one or more parcels of land which must be contiguous, except that
said parcels may be separated by a public alley or walk.	2.	Urbanized Areas
–	(a)	(Amended by Ord. No. 124,937, Eff. 8/2/63.) Each application for the
establishment of an oil drilling district in an urbanized area shall contain a
statement that the applicant has the proprietary or contractual authority to
drill for and produce oil, gas or other hydrocarbon substances under the surface
of at least 75 per cent of the property to be included in said district.	Any
municipal body or official required by law to consider and make a report or
recommendation relative to or to approve or disapprove such application may
request the applicant in writing to submit for inspection copies of leases and
contracts held by applicant in support of such asserted proprietary or
contractual authority. The limitations of time for acting upon such application
shall be suspended from the time of mailing such request until the documents
requested have been submitted.	(b)	(Amended by Ord. No. 112,524, Eff. 1/17/59.)
Where said authority to drill for and produce oil, gas and other hydrocarbons is
pursuant to contract, said application shall be accompanied by a copy thereof,
and said contract shall have attached thereto and referred to therein by
reference the following information for the contracting parties:	(1)	(Amended by
Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  A summary of the provisions of
the Los Angeles Municipal Code, as amended, which are applicable to the
district, prepared or approved by the person authorized to be in charge of
Petroleum Administration by the Director of the Office of Administrative and
Research Services for the City of Los Angeles;	(2)	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,363,
Eff. 7/29/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  Any additional information which the person in
charge of Petroleum Administration finds from time to time is required to give
all contracting parties a reasonably complete knowledge of oil and gas leasing
requirements and procedures in urbanized areas within the City of Los
Angeles.	(c)	The district described in said application shall be not less than
40 acres in area, including all streets, ways and alleys within the boundary
thereof; shall be substantially compact in area; and the boundaries thereof
shall follow public streets, ways or alleys as far as practicable. (Amended by
Ord. No. 112,524, Eff. 1/17/59.)	(d)	Each applicant for the establishment of an
oil drilling district in an urbanized area shall be accompanied by a report from
a petroleum geologist who	(1)	is an active member of the American Association of
Petroleum Geologists or the American Institute of Professional Geologists
or	(2)	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  meets the
educational and experience requirements to become an active member of the
American Association of Petroleum Geologists or the American Institute of
Professional Geologists, that the production of oil from under the proposed
district would not, in his or her opinion, result in any noticeable
subsidence.  If the City’s authorized person in charge of Petroleum
Administration disagrees in any way with the report, he or she shall submit in
writing his or her own views on the report as part of the report to the City
Planning Commission.	3.	Offshore Areas. Each application for the establishment
of an oil drilling district in an offshore area shall include property having a
net area of not less than 1,000 acres. (Amended by Ord. No. 126,825, Eff.
4/4/64.)	4.	Los Angeles City Oil Field Area (Amended by Ord. No. 156,166, Eff.
1/24/82.) Each application for the establishment of an oil drilling district in
the Los Angeles City Oil Field Area shall:	(a)	Include property not less than
one acre in size, bounded on each side by a public street, alley, walk or way
and such district shall be wholly contained within the Los Angeles City Oil
Field Area.	(b)	Contain a statement that the applicant has the proprietary or
contractual authority to drill for and produce oil, gas or other hydrocarbon
substances under the surface of at least 75% of the total land area of the
property to be included in said district.	Any municipal body or official
required by law to consider and make a report or recommendation relative to or
to approve or disapprove such application may request the applicant in writing
to submit for inspection copies of leases and contracts held by applicant in
support of such asserted proprietary or contractual authority. The limitations
of time for acting upon such application shall be suspended from the time of
mailing such request until the documents requested have been submitted.[Editor's
note:  Maps formerly referred to in this section were deleted by Ord. No.
177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.]	5.	General – All Areas.  (Amended by Ord. No.
173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  No application for the establishment of
an oil drilling district shall be accepted for filing in the City Planning
Department unless it has first been submitted to and reported on by the
authorized person in charge of Petroleum Administration.  The report shall
consider the propriety of the proposed boundaries of the district, the
desirability of the drill site location and whether or not the exploration for
oil is geologically justified in the district.  The report shall be made within
30 days of the receipt of the application.  A copy of the report shall
accompany the application when it is filed with the City Planning
Department.	E.	Standard Conditions:	1.	Non–urbanized Areas – Each oil
drilling district established in a non–urbanized area shall be subject to the
following conditions:	(a)	Each district shall contain a net area of one acre or
more which shall be composed of contiguous parcels of land that may be separated
by an alley or walk, except that a district may contain an area of less  than
one acre where it is surrounded on all sides by streets.	(b)	(Amended by Ord.
No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  Each drilling site in any district
shall contain a net area of one acre or more and shall be composed of contiguous
parcels of land which may be separated only by an alley or walk.  A drilling
site may contain less than one acre of area where it is surrounded on all sides
by public or approved private streets.	Only one oil well Class A may be
established or maintained on each acre of land, except that there may be one oil
well Class A on any land surrounded on all sides by public or approved private
streets.  Provided, however, in determining conditions for drilling pursuant to
Subsection H, the Zoning Administrator may permit surface operations for more
than one oil well Class A in a semi-controlled drilling site where the
additional wells are to be bottomed under adjacent land in a drilling district
in lieu of surface operations.  There shall be no less than one net acre of
land in the combined drill site and production site for each well in a
semi-controlled drilling site.  The Zoning Administrator shall require a site
of more than one acre for each oil well where a larger area is required in the
particular oil drilling district.  The Zoning Administrator may require larger
minimum drilling sites or production areas when reasonably necessary in the
public interest for a particular oil producing section.	Where drilling sites
greater than one acre are required and two or more lessees or oil drilling
developers in a block or area have at least one net acre each, but all lessees
or developers do not have the greater area required for drilling under these
regulations, the Zoning Administrator shall equitably allocate permitted wells
among the competing lessees or developers.  Where necessary, the lessee or
developer having control of the larger portion of the property shall be given
preference.  In those situations outlined above, in addition to the proration
required by Paragraph (d) of this subdivision, the Zoning Administrator shall
require that the lessee or developer who is authorized to drill the well shall
offer an equitable consolidation agreement to the lessee or developer who has
not been permitted to drill.   This consolidation agreement shall contain an
offer in writing, open for acceptance for 30 days, giving the other lessees or
developers a choice of either:	(i)	a lease on terms and conditions agreed upon,
or on substantially the same terms and conditions contained in leases owned by
the applicant; or,	(ii)	a consolidation agreement agreed upon providing that
each lessee or developer shall contribute to the cost of drilling and operation
of the well and share in the production from the well in the proportion that the
area of his property bears to the total area in the drilling unit.	(c)	No public
street, alley, walk or way shall he included in determining the net area within
any district or drilling site.	(d)	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00,
Oper. 7/1/00.)  Where the drilling site is so located as to isolate any parcel
of land in the drilling district in such a manner that it could not be joined
with any other land so as to create another drilling site of the area required
in the particular district in which it is located, the Zoning Administrator
shall require, as a condition to the drilling and production on the drilling
site that the owner, lessee or permittee or his or her successor shall pay to
the owners of the oil and gas mineral rights in each isolated parcel, a pro-rata
share of the landowners’ royalty in all of the oil and gas produced from the
drilling site, the share to be in that proportion as the net area of the
isolated parcel is to the total net area of the drilling site plus the area of
all the isolated parcels; provided that the landowners’ royalty shall be
determined in accordance with any existing contracts for payments to the
landowners of the drilling site, but, in no event, as to the owner of the
isolated parcel or parcels, shall it be less than a 1/6th part of the oil and
gas produced and saved from the drilling site.	2.	Urbanized Areas – Each oil
drilling district established in an urbanized area shall he subject to the
following conditions:	(a)	Each district shall be not less than 40 acres in area,
including all streets, ways and alleys within the boundaries
thereof.	(b)	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  Not
more than one controlled drill site shall be permitted for each 40 acres in any
district and that site shall not be larger than two acres when used to develop a
district approximating the minimum size; provided, however, that where the site
is to be used for the development of larger oil drilling districts or where the
Zoning Administrator requires that more than one oil drilling district be
developed from one controlled drilling site, the site may be increased, at the
discretion of the Zoning Administrator when concurred in by the Board of Fire
Commissioners, by not more than two acres for each 40 acres included in the
district or districts.	(c)	(Amended by Ord. No. 147,651, Eff. 10/11/75.)  The
number of oil wells Class A which may be drilled and operated from any
controlled drilling site may not exceed one well to each five acres in the
district or districts to be explored from said site.	Notwithstanding the above,
should the City Council determine that an urbanized oil drilling district
contains more than one producing zone, the City Council may then authorize, by
ordinance, the drilling of additional oil wells Class A, not to exceed one well
per five acres for each identified producing zone, and specify the maximum
number of wells to be drilled as the result of such authorization.	(d)	(Amended
by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  Each applicant, requesting a
determination by the Zoning Administrator prescribing the conditions controlling
drilling and production operations, as provided in Subsection H of this section,
must have proprietary or contractual authority to drill for oil under the
surface of at least 75 percent of the property in the district to be
explored.	(e)	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  Each
applicant or his or her successor in interest shall, within one year from the
date the written determination is made by a Zoning Administrator prescribing the
conditions controlling drilling and production operations as provided in
Subsection H of this section, execute an offer in writing giving to each record
owner of property located in the oil drilling district who has not joined in the
lease or other authorization to drill the right to share in the proceeds of
production from wells bottomed in the district, upon the same basis as those
property owners who have, by lease or other legal consent, agreed to the
drilling for and production of oil, gas or other hydrocarbon substances from the
subsurface of the district.  The offer hereby required must remain open for
acceptance for a period of five years after the date the written determination
is made by a Zoning Administrator.  During the period the offer is in effect,
the applicant, or his or her successor in interest, shall impound all royalties
to which the owners or any of them may become entitled in a bank or trust
company in the State of California, with proper provisions for payment to the
record owners of property in the district who had not signed the lease at the
time the written provisions were made by a Zoning Administrator, but who accepts
the offer in writing within the five-year period.  Any such royalties remaining
in any bank or trust company at the time the offer expires which are not due or
payable as provided above shall be paid pro-rata to those owners who, at the
time of the expiration, are otherwise entitled to share in the proceeds of the
production.	(f)	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  The
entire controlled drilling site shall be adequately landscaped, except for those
portions occupied by any required structure, appurtenance or driveway, and all
landscaping shall be maintained in good condition at all times.  Plans showing
the type and extent of the landscaping shall be first submitted to and approved
by the Zoning Administrator.	(g)	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00,
Oper. 7/1/00.)  Each applicant, requesting a determination by a Zoning
Administrator prescribing the conditions controlling drilling and production
operations, as provided in Subsection H of this section, shall post in the
Office of Zoning Administration a satisfactory corporate surety bond (to be
approved by the City Attorney and duplicates to be furnished to him or her) in
the sum of $5,000 in favor of the City of Los Angeles, conditioned upon the
performance by the applicant of all of the conditions, provisions, restrictions
and requirements of this section, and all additional conditions, restrictions or
requirements determined and prescribed by a Zoning Administrator.  No extension
of time that may be granted by a Zoning Administrator or any change or
specifications or requirements that may be approved or required by him or her or
by any other officer or department of the City or any other alteration,
modification of waiver affecting any of the obligations of the grantee made by
any City authority or by any other power or authority whatsoever shall be deemed
to exonerate either the grantee or the surety on any bond posted pursuant to
this section.	(h)	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  
  If a Zoning Administrator determines, after first receiving a report and
recommendation from the Director of the Office of Administrative and Research
Services, that oil drilling and production activities within the district have
caused or may cause subsidence in the elevation of the ground within the
district or in the immediate vicinity, then after consulting with recognized
experts in connection with that problem and with those producing hydrocarbons
from the affected area, he or she shall have the authority to require the
involved oil producer or producers to take corrective action, including
re-pressurizing the oil producing structure or cessation of oil drilling and
production.	(i)	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  A
Zoning Administrator may impose additional conditions or require corrective
measures to be taken if he or she finds, after actual observation or experience
with drilling one or more of the wells in the district, that additional
conditions are necessary to afford greater protection to surrounding
property.	3.	Offshore Areas. (Amended by Ord. No. 142,081, Eff. 7/22/71.) Each
oil drilling district established in an offshore area shall be subject to the
following conditions:	(a)	All activities conducted within each such district
shall conform to the spirit and intent of the provisions of Subsection A of
Section 12.20.1 of this Code.	(b)	No surface or submarine drilling or producing
operations shall be permitted between the mean high tide line and the outermost
seaward City boundary. Surface drilling or producing operations may be conducted
only from permitted or approved onshore drillsites. Oil and gas accumulations
may be developed by directional or slant drilling beneath any portion of the
submerged land within the district.	(c)	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff.
7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  Onshore drilling and producing operations utilizing
directional or slant drilling may be approved by a Zoning Administrator only
when a showing is made that production of oil and gas cannot be accomplished
from already approved or permissible sites.	(d)	The number of oil wells Class A
which may be drilled into any offshore drilling district from a single
installation or facility onshore shall not exceed one well to each five acres of
district and the installation and operation of all wells shall meet the
requirements of Section 12.20.1.	(e)	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00,
Oper. 7/1/00.)  Each applicant requesting a determination by a Zoning
Administrator prescribing the conditions controlling drilling and production
operations, as provided in Subsection H, shall post in the Office of Zoning
Administration a satisfactory corporate surety bond (to be approved by the City
Attorney and duplicates to be furnished to him or her) in the sum of $50,000 in
favor of the City of Los Angeles, conditioned upon the performance by the
applicant of all of the conditions, provisions, restrictions and requirements of
this section, and all additional conditions, restrictions, or requirements
determined and prescribed by a Zoning Administrator.  No extension of time that
may be granted by a Zoning Administrator on any change of specifications on
requirements that may be approved or required by him or her or by any other
officer or department of the City or any other alteration, modification or
waiver affecting any of the obligations of the applicant made by any City
authority or by any other power or authority whatsoever shall be deemed to
exonerate either the applicant or the surety on any bond posted pursuant to this
section.	(f)	All derricks and other drilling facilities shall be removed within
30 days after completion or abandonment of the well; and thereafter any work
done on any existing well which requires redrilling or reconditioning shall be
done by temporary or portable equipment which shall be removed within 30 days
after completion of such work.	(g)	Pollution of water and contamination or
soiling of the urban coastline or beaches are prohibited.	4.	Los Angeles City
Oil Field Area. (Added by Ord. No. 156,166, Eff. 1/24/82.) – Each oil drilling
district established in the Los Angeles City Oil Field Area shall be subject to
the following conditions:	(a)	The boundary of each district shall follow the
center line of city streets as far as practicable;	(b)	Each district shall
include the streets, ways, and alleys within the boundaries thereof and shall be
substantially compact in area;	(c)	The drilling, pumping, redrilling, repairing,
maintenance or other servicing of any new oil well Class A in said district
shall be conducted only on a Drilling and Production Site in the Los Angeles
City Oil Field Area upon which site at least one Class A oil well was (i) in
existence on January 24,1982; and (ii) had not been abandoned in accordance with
State Division of Oil and Gas regulations prior to January 24,1982; and (iii)
has a Los Angeles Fire Department Serial Number, which number was in existence
on January 24, 1982. (Amended by Ord. No. 160,874, Eff. 4/6/86.)	(d)	The number
of new oil wells Class A permitted on such a Drilling and Production Site in the
Los Angeles City Oil Field Area shall not exceed one well to each acre in the
District;	(e)	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  Each
applicant, requesting a determination by the Zoning Administrator prescribing
the conditions controlling new drilling and production operations as provided in
Subsection H, must have proprietary or contractual authority to drill for oil
under the surface of at least 75% of the total land area of the property in the
district to be explored.	(f)	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  Within one year from the date the written determination is made by a
Zoning Administrator prescribing the conditions controlling drilling and
production operations, as provided in Subsection H, each applicant or his or her
successor in interest shall offer in writing to each record owner of property
located in the oil drilling district who has not joined in the lease or other
authorization to drill, the right to share in proceeds of production from new
wells bottomed in the district upon the same basis as those property owners who
have, by lease or other legal consent, agreed to the drilling for and production
of oil, gas or other hydrocarbon substances from the sub-surface of the
district.  The offer hereby required must remain open for acceptance for a
period of five years after the date the written determination is made by a
Zoning Administrator.  During the period the offer is in effect, the applicant,
or his or her successor in interest, shall impound all royalties to which the
owners or any of them may become entitled in a bank or trust company in the
State of California, with proper provisions for payment to the record owners of
property in the district who had not signed the lease at the time the written
determination was made by a Zoning Administrator, but who accepts the offer in
writing within the five-year period.  Any royalties remaining in any bank or
trust company at the time the offer expires which are not due or payable as
provided above shall be paid pro-rata to those owners who, at the time of the
expiration, are otherwise entitled to share in the proceeds of the
production.	(g)	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  the
entire site upon which new oil wells are to be drilled shall be adequately
fenced and landscaped; plans showing the type and extent of the landscaping
shall be first submitted to and approved by the Zoning
Administrator.	(h)	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.) 
Each applicant requesting a determination by a Zoning Administrator prescribing
the conditions controlling drilling and production operations, as provided in
Subsection H, shall post in the Office of Zoning Administration a satisfactory
corporate surety bond (to be approved by the City Attorney and duplicates to be
furnished by him or her) in the sum of $5,000 in favor of the City of Los
Angeles, conditioned upon the performance by the applicant of all of the
conditions, provisions, restrictions, and requirements of this section, and all
additional conditions, restrictions, or requirements determined and prescribed
by a Zoning Administrator.  No extension of time that may be granted by a
Zoning Administrator or any change of specifications or requirements that may be
approved or required by him or her or by any other officer or department of the
City or any other alteration, modification or waiver affecting any of the
obligations of the grantee made by any city authority or by any other power or
authority whatsoever shall be deemed to exonerate either the grantee or the
surety of any bond posted pursuant to this section.	(i)	(Amended by Ord. No.
173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  If a Zoning Administrator determined
after first receiving a report and recommendation from the Director of the
Office of Administrative and Research Services, that oil drilling and production
activities within the district have caused or may cause subsidence in the
elevation of the ground within the district or in the immediate vicinity, he or
she shall have the authority, after consulting with recognized experts in
connection with the problem and with those persons producing hydrocarbons from
the affected area, to require the involved oil producer or producers to take
corrective action, including re-pressurizing the oil producing structure or
cessation of oil drilling and production.	(j)	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff.
7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  A Zoning Administrator may impose additional conditions
or require corrective measures to be taken if he or she finds, after actual
observation or experience with drilling one or more of the wells in the
district, that additional conditions are necessary to afford greater protection
to surrounding property.	(k)	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  Any operator of any site within an oil drilling district, approved by
the Zoning Administrator pursuant to Section 12.23C4(c), may apply to the
Department of City Planning for the establishment of fencing and landscaping
requirements.  Once the requirements have been satisfied, the operator shall be
relieved of the restrictions specified in Section 12.23C4(b) and (c).  Should
an operator of such a site in a district desire to redrill or deepen a Class A
oil well, if the oil well was	(i)	in existence on January 24, 1982; and	(ii)	had
not been officially abandoned in accordance with State Division of Oil and Gas
Regulations prior to January 24, 1982; and	(iii)	has a Los Angeles Fire
Department Serial Number and the number was in existence on January 24, 1982,
that operator shall comply with the provisions of Subsection H of Section
13.01.  Compliance with the Determination of Conditions issued shall relieve
the operator of the restrictions specified in Section 12.23C4(b) and (c) of this
Code.	F.	Additional Conditions.  In addition to the standard conditions
applying to oil drilling districts, the Council, by ordinance, or the Zoning
Administrator may impose other conditions in each district as deemed necessary
and proper.  Where these conditions are imposed by ordinance, they may be
subsequently modified or deleted in the following manner:	(a)	where the
condition relates to the location of a drill site within a district, by amending
the ordinance, only after the submission of an application, the payment of fees,
notice, hearing and procedure identical to that required by this article for the
establishment of an oil drilling district; and	(b)	where the condition does not
relate to the location of a drill site, by amending the ordinance, without the
necessity of fees, notice or hearing.	In its report to the Council relative to
the establishment of a district, the City Planning Commission may recommend
conditions for consideration.  Some of these additional conditions, which may
be imposed in the ordinance establishing the districts or by the Zoning
Administrator in determining the drilling site requirements, and which may be
applied by reference, are as follows:  (Para. Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff.
7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)	1.	That all pumping units established in said district
shall be installed in pits so that no parts thereof will be above the surface of
the ground.	2.	That all oil produced in said district shall be carried away by
pipe lines or, if stored in said district, shall be stored in underground tanks
so constructed that no portion thereof will be above the surface of the
ground.	3.	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  That the
operator of any well or wells in the district shall post in the Office of Zoning
Administration a $5,000 corporate surety bond conditioned upon the faithful
performance of all provisions of this article and any conditions prescribed by a
Zoning Administrator.  No extension of time that may be granted by a Zoning
Administrator, or change of specifications or requirements that may be approved
or required by him or her or by any other officer or department of the City, or
other alteration, modification or waiver affecting any of the obligations of the
grantee made by any City authority shall be deemed to exonerate either the
grantee or the surety on any bond posted as required in this article.	4.	That
the operators shall remove the derrick from each well within thirty (30) days
after the drilling of said well has been completed, and thereafter, when
necessary, such completed wells shall be serviced by portable
derricks.	5.	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  That
the drilling site shall be fenced or landscaped as prescribed by the Zoning
Administrator.	6.	(None)	7.	That, except in case of emergency, no materials,
equipment, tools or pipe used for either drilling or production operations shall
be delivered to or removed from the drilling site, except between the hours of
8:00 A.M. and 8:00 P.M. of any day.	8.	That adequate fire fighting apparatus and
supplies, approved by the Fire Department, shall be maintained on the drilling
site at all times during drilling and production operations.	9.	That no refining
process or any process for the extraction of products from natural gas shall be
carried on at a drilling site.	10.	(None)	11.	(None)	12.	(None)	13.	That no more
than one well shall be bottomed in each five (5) acres of the drilling
district.	14.	That no new oil wells shall be spudded in after the President of
the United States, or other proper authority, has declared that a state of war
no longer exists.	15.	(None)	16.	(None)	17.	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff.
7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  That any person requesting a determination by the
Zoning Administrator prescribing the conditions under which oil drilling and
production operations shall be conducted as provided in Subsection H, shall
agree in writing on behalf of him or herself and his or her successors or
assigns, to be bound by all of the terms and conditions of this article and any
conditions prescribed by written determination by the Zoning Administrator;
provided, however, that the agreement in writing shall not be construed to
prevent the applicant or his or her successors or assigns from applying at any
time for amendments pursuant to this Article or to the conditions prescribed by
the Zoning Administrator, or from applying for the creation of a new district or
an extension of time for drilling or production operations.	18.	That all
production equipment used shall be so constructed and operated that no noise,
vibration, dust, odor or other harmful or annoying substances or effect which
can be eliminated or diminished by the use of greater care shall ever be
permitted to result from production operations carried on at any drilling site
or from anything incident thereto to the injury or annoyance of persons living
in the vicinity; nor shall the site or structures thereon be permitted to become
dilapidated, unsightly or unsafe. Proven technological improvements in methods
of production shall he adopted as they, from time to time, become available if
capable of reducing factors of nuisance or annoyance.	19.	Wells which are placed
upon the pump shall be pumped by electricity with the most modern and latest
type of pumping units of a height of not more than sixteen (16) feet. All
permanent equipment shall be painted and kept in neat condition. All production
operations shall be as free from noise as possible with modern oil
operations.	20.	All drilling equipment shall be removed from the premises
immediately after drilling is completed, sump holes filled, and derricks removed
within sixty (60) days after the completion of the well.	21.	That, subject to
the approval of the Board of Fire Commissioners, the operators shall properly
screen from view all equipment used in connection with the flowing or pumping of
wells.	22.	Upon the completion of the drilling of a well the premises shall be
placed in a clean condition and shall be landscaped with planting of shrubbery
so as to screen from public view as far as possible, the tanks and other
permanent equipment, such landscaping and shrubbery to be kept in good
condition.	23.	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  That
not more than two wells may be drilled in each city block of the drilling
district and bottomed under that block.  However, at the discretion of the
Zoning Administrator, surface operations for additional wells may be permitted
in each of the blocks where each additional well is to be directionally drilled
and bottomed under an adjacent block now or hereafter established in an oil
drilling district in lieu of a well drilled on the adjacent block and under a
spacing program which will result in not exceeding two wells bottomed under each
block.	24.	That not more than one (1) well shall be drilled in each city block
of the drilling district; provided, however, that a second well may be drilled
in that block bounded by “L”, Gulf Avenue, Denni Street and Wilmington
Boulevard, only in the event said second well be directionally drilled or
whipstocked so that the bottom of the hole will be bottomed under the (Gulf
Avenue School property located in the block bounded by “L” Street, Roman
Avenue, Denni Street and Gulf Avenue, and in lieu of a well which might
otherwise be permitted to be drilled in said last mentioned block.	25.	That not
more than one (1) well may be drilled in each city block of the drilling
district.	26.	That all power operations other than drilling in said district
shall at all times he carried on only by means of electrical power, which power
shall not be generated on the drilling site.	27.	(None)	28.	(None)	29.	That not
more than two (2) wells may be drilled in each city block of the drilling
district; provided, however, that two (2) additional wells may be drilled in
each of the following described blocks, (a) the block bounded by Q Street, Lakme
Avenue, Sandison Street and Broad Avenue and (b) the block bounded by Sandison
Street, Lakme Avenue, Broad     Avenue and the southerly boundary of Tract No.
1934, but only if such additional wells are  directionally drilled or
whipstocked so that they will be bottomed under the Hancock–Banning High
school property, located in the block bounded by Delores Street, Broad Avenue,
Pacific Coast Highway and Avalon Boulevard, in lieu of the four (4) wells which
might otherwise be permitted to be drilled in the last mentioned
block.	30.	(None)	31.	Not more than four (4) controlled drilling sites shall be
permitted in this district, and such sites shall not be larger than two (2)
acres.	32.	The number of wells which may be drilled to any oil sand from the
controlled  drilling site shall not exceed one (1) well to each five (5) acres
in the district, but in no event shall there he more than one (1) well to each
two and one-half (2 l/2) acres.	33.	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00,
Oper. 7/1/00.)  That drilling operations shall be commenced within 90 days from
the effective date the written determination is made by the Zoning Administrator
or Area Planning Commission, or within any additional period as the Zoning
Administrator may, for good cause, allow and thereafter shall be prosecuted
diligently to completion or else abandoned strictly as required by law and the
premises restored to their original condition as nearly as practicable as can be
done.  If a producing well is not secured within eight months, the well shall
be abandoned and the premises restored to its original condition, as nearly as
practicable as can be done.  The Zoning Administrator, for good cause, shall
allow additional time for the completion of the well.	34.	That an internal
combustion engine or electrical equipment may be used in the drilling or pumping
operations of the well, and if an internal combustion engine is used, that
mufflers be installed on the mud pumps and engine so as to reduce noise to a
minimum, all of said installations to be done in a manner satisfactory to the
Fire Department.	35.	(None)	36.	That not more than two (2) production tanks
shall be installed for each producing well, neither one of which shall have a
rated capacity in excess of one thousand (1,000) barrels; provided, however,
that if in the opinion of the Administrator it is necessary in order to provide
for the maximum safety of operations or to decrease the number of individual
production tank settings on any property, the Administrator may increase the
number of such production tanks to not more than three (3), having a greater
capacity not to exceed two thousand (2,000) barrels each. The Administrator
shall permit such wash tanks or heating facilities as may appear necessary to
ship or remove production from the premises. The plans for said tank or tanks,
including the plot plan showing the location thereof on the property, shall be
submitted to and approved in writing by the Administrator before said tank or
tanks and appurtenances are located on the premises; and that said tank or tanks
and appurtenances shall be kept painted and maintained in good
condition.	37.	All waste substances such as drilling muds, oil, brine or acids
produced or used in connection with oil drilling operations or oil production
shall be retained in water–tight receptors from which they may he piped or
hauled for terminal disposal in a dumping area specifically approved for such
disposal by the Los Angeles Regional Water Pollution Control Board No.
4.	38.	Any wells drilled shall be cased tight to bedrock or effective means
satisfactory to the Department of Water and Power used to prevent vertical
movement of ground water.	39.	The applicant shall provide the Department of
Water and Power with a precise plot plan of the drilling plant and roads leading
thereto, and to make such safeguards as the Department deems necessary to assure
the safety of the existing 50” water main which crosses the district
involved.	40.	The Department of Water and Power of the City of Los Angeles shall
be permitted to review and inspect methods used in the drilling and producing
operations and in the disposal of waste, and shall have the right to require
changes necessary for the full protection of the public water
supply.	41.	(None)	42.	That the number of wells which may be drilled to any oil
sand shall not exceed one (1) well to each five (5) acres in the district, but
in no event shall there be more than one (1) well to each two and one–half
acres.	43.	That drilling, pumping and other power operations shall at all times
be carried on only by electrical power and that such power shall not be
generated on the controlled drilling site or in the district.	44.	That an
internal combustion engine or steam-driven equipment may be used in the drilling
or pumping operations of the well , and, if an internal combustion engine or
steam-driven equipment is used, that mufflers be installed  on the mudpumps and
engine; and that the exhaust from the steam-driven machinery be expelled into
one of the production tanks, if such tanks are permitted, so as to reduce noise
to a minimum, all of said installations to be found in a manner satisfactory to
the Fire Department.	45.	That drilling operations shall be carried on or
conducted in connection with only one well at a time in any one such district,
and such well shall be brought in or abandoned before operations for the
drilling of another well are commenced; provided, however, that the
Administrator may permit the drilling of more than one well at a time after the
discovery well has been brought in.	46.	That all oil drilling and production
operations shall be conducted in such a manner as to eliminate, as far as
practicable, dust, noise, vibration or noxious odors, and shall be in accordance
with the best accepted practices incident to drilling for and production of oil,
gas and other hydrocarbon substances. Proven technological improvements in
drilling and production methods shall be adopted as they may become, from time
to time, available, if capable of reducing factors of nuisance and
annoyance.	47.	That all parts of the derrick above the derrick floor not
reasonably necessary for ingress and egress including the elevated portion
thereof used as a hoist, shall be enclosed with fire–resistive soundproofing
material approved by the Fire Department, and the same shall be painted or
stained so as to render the appearance of said derrick as unobtrusive as
practicable.	48.	That all tools, pipe and other equipment used in connection
with any drilling or production operations shall be screened from view, and all
drilling operations shall be conducted or carried on behind a solid fence, which
shall be maintained in good condition at all times and be painted or stained so
as to render such fence as unobtrusive as practicable.	49.	That no materials,
equipment, tools or pipe used for either drilling or production operations shall
be delivered to or removed from the controlled drilling site except between the
hours of 8:00 o’ clock a.m. and 6:00 o clock p.m., on any day, except in case
of emergency incident to unforeseen drilling or production operations, and then
only when permission in writing has been previously obtained from the
Administrator.	50.	That no earthen sumps shall be used.	51.	That within sixty
(60) days after the drilling of each well has been completed, and said well
placed on production, or abandoned, the derrick, all boilers and all other
drilling equipment shall be entirely removed from the premises unless such
derrick and appurtenant equipment is to be used within a reasonable time limit
determined by the Administrator for the drilling of another well on the same
controlled drilling site.	52.	That no oil, gas or other hydrocarbon substances
may be produced from any well hereby permitted unless all equipment necessarily
incident to such production is completely enclosed within a building, the plans
for said building to be approved by the Department of Building and Safety and
the Fire Department. This building shall be of a permanent type, of attractive
design and constructed in a manner that will eliminate as far as practicable,
dust, noise, noxious odors and vibrations or other conditions which are
offensive to the senses, and shall be equipped with such devices as are
necessary to eliminate the objectionable features mentioned above. The
architectural treatment of the exterior of such building shall also be subject
to the approval of the Administrator.	53.	That no oil, gas or other hydrocarbon
substances may be produced from any well hereby permitted where same is located
within or immediately adjoining subdivided areas where ten (10) percent of the
lots or subdivided parcels of ground, within one-half (1/2) mile radius thereof,
are improved with residential structures, unless all equipment necessarily
incidental to such production is countersunk below the natural surface of the
ground and such installation and equipment shall be made in accordance with Fire
Department requirements.	54.	That there shall be no tanks or other facilities
for the storage of oil erected or maintained on the premises and that all oil
products shall be transported from the drilling site by means of an underground
pipe line connected directly with the production pump without venting products
to the atmospheric pressure at the production site.	55.	That not more than two
production tanks shall be installed on said drilling site, neither one of which
shall have a rated capacity in excess of one thousand (1000) barrels; that the
plans for said tank or tanks, including the plot plans showing the location
thereof on the property, shall be submitted to and approved in writing by the
Administrator before said tank or tanks and appurtenances are located on the
premises, and that said tank or tanks and appurtenances shall be kept painted
and maintained in good condition at all times.	56.	That any production tanks
shall be countersunk below the natural surface of the ground and the
installation thereof shall be made in accordance with safety requirements of the
Fire Department.	57.	That no refinery, dehydrating or absorption plant of any
kind shall be constructed, established or maintained on the premises at any
time.	58.	That no sign shall be constructed, erected, maintained or placed on
the premises or any part thereof, except those required by law or ordinance to
be displayed in connection with the drilling or maintenance of the
well.	59.	That suitable and adequate sanitary toilet and washing facilities
shall be installed and maintained in a clean and sanitary condition at all
times.	60.	That any owner, lessee or permittee and their successors and assigns,
must at all times be insured to the extent of one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000) against liability in tort arising from drilling or production, or
activities or operations incident thereto, conducted or carried on under or by
virtue of the conditions prescribed by written determination by the
Administrator as provided in Subsection H of this section. The policy of
insurance issued pursuant hereto shall be subject to the approval of the City
Attorney, and duplicates shall be furnished to him. Each such policy shall be
conditioned or endorsed to cover such agents, lessees or representatives of the
owner, lessee or permittee as may actually conduct drilling, production or
incidental operations permitted by such written determination by the
Administrator.	61.	(None)	62.	All onshore drilling and production installations
or facilities shall be removed and the premises restored to their original
conditions after all oil and gas wells have been abandoned, unless the City
Planning Commission determines otherwise. (Amended by Ord. No. 142,081, Eff.
7/22/71.)	63.	(None)	64.	(None)	G.	Description of Districts (Added by Ord. No.
123,825, Eff. 4/4/64.) – The districts within which the drilling for and
production of oil, gas or other hydrocarbon substances is permitted, and the
conditions applying thereto (subject to further conditions imposed by the
Administrator in the drilling site requirements), are described as
follows:	1.	Districts in Non-urbanized Areas. (For boundaries of districts and
special conditions applicable thereto, refer to maps and records in City
Planning Office).	2.	Districts in Urbanized Areas. (For boundaries of districts
and special conditions applicable thereto, refer to maps and records in City
Planning Office).	3.	Districts in Offshore Areas. (For boundaries of districts
and special conditions applicable thereto, refer to maps and records in City
Planning Office.) (Added by Ord. No. 130,339, Eff. 7/30/65.)	4.	Districts in the
Los Angeles City Oil Field Area. (For boundaries of such districts and any
conditions applicable thereto, refer to maps and records in the City Planning
Office.) (Added by Ord. No. 156,166, Eff. 1/24/82.)	H.	Drilling Site
Requirements.  Any person desiring to drill, deepen or maintain an oil well in
an oil drilling district that has been established by ordinance, or to drill or
deepen and subsequently maintain an oil well in the M3 Zone within 500 feet of a
more restrictive zone shall file an application in the Department of City
Planning on a form provided by the Department, requesting a determination of the
conditions under which the operations may be conducted.  (Para. Amended by Ord.
No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)	Where the district is in an urbanized or off-shore
area, a Zoning Administrator, after investigation, may deny the application if
he finds that there is available and reasonably obtainable in the same district
or in an adjacent or nearby district within a reasonable distance one or more
locations where drilling could be done with greater safety and security with
appreciably less harm to other property, or with greater conformity to the
comprehensive zoning map.  A Zoning Administrator shall deny an application for
a drill site in an urbanized or off-shore area unless the applicant first files
with the Zoning Administrator in a form and executed in a manner approved by a
Zoning Administrator	(1)	either of the following continuing written
offers	(a)	to make the drill site available to competing operators upon
reasonable terms, or	(b)	to enter into or conduct joint operations for a unit or
cooperative plan of development of hydrocarbon reserves upon reasonable terms,
if whichever course offered is determined to be feasible by a Zoning
Administrator, and is subsequently required by him or her in order to effectuate
the above set forth purposes, and	(2)	an agreement to abide by the determination
of the Director of Administrative and Research Services if any dispute arises as
to the reasonableness of those terms after first having an opportunity to be
heard.  Where the district is in a nonurbanized area, in the Los Angeles City
Oil Field Area, or in those cases where a Zoning Administrator approves an
application in an urbanized or off-shore area, a Zoning Administrator shall
determine and prescribe additional conditions or limitations, not in conflict
with those specified in the ordinance establishing the district, which he or she
deems appropriate in order to give effect to the provisions of this section and
to other provisions of this chapter relating to zoning.  Where the proposed
operation is in the M3 Zone and is within 500 feet of a more restrictive zone, a
Zoning Administrator shall prescribe conditions and limitations, if any, as he
or she deems appropriate to regulate activity which may be materially
detrimental to property in the more restrictive zone.  All conditions
previously imposed by a Zoning Administrator in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter are continued in full force and effect.	A Zoning Administrator
shall make his or her written determination within 60 days from the date of the
filing of an application and shall forthwith transmit a copy to the
applicant.	The determination shall become final after an elapsed period of 15
days from the mailing of the notification to the applicant, unless an appeal is
filed within that period, in which case the provisions of Section 12.24B through
I concerning the filing and consideration of appeals shall apply.	I.	Permits. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  No person shall
drill, deepen or maintain an oil well or convert an oil well from one class to
the other and no permits shall be issued for that use, until a determination has
been made by the Zoning Administrator or Area Planning Commission pursuant to
the procedure prescribed in Subsection H of this section.	J.	Termination of
District. Any ordinance establishing the districts described in this section
shall become null and void one year after the effective date thereof unless oil
drilling operations are commenced and diligently prosecuted within such
one–year period, provided, however, a Zoning Administrator, upon
recommendation of the Director of the Office of Administrative and Research
Services, may extend the termination date for four consecutive additional
periods not to exceed one year each, prior to the termination date of each
period, if written request is filed therefor with the office of the Zoning
Administration setting forth the reasons for said request and a Zoning
Administrator determines that good and reasonable cause exists therefor.
(Amended by Ord. No. 173,363, Eff. 7/29/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)	Similarly, a Zoning
Administrator, upon recommendation of the City Administrative Officer, may
extend the termination date for three consecutive additional periods not to
exceed one year each, prior to the termination date of each period, for those
districts which are part of a group undergoing development from one or more
common controlled drilling sites, provided that written request is filed, which
sets forth the reasons for the request therefor and the Zoning Administrator
determines that good and reasonable cause exists therefor, and providing further
that drilling operations have been diligently prosecuted from the common
controlled drilling site during the previous extension period. Additional
one–year extensions may be made by a Zoning Administrator subject to the
approval of the City Planning Commission. (Amended by Ord. No. 134,135, Eff.
4/28/67.)	Any ordinance establishing an urbanized oil district shall become null
and void one year after all wells drilled in the district after the effective
date of said ordinance have been abandoned in accordance with legal
requirements, unless a Zoning Administrator determines that the district is part
of a group undergoing development from one or more common, controlled drilling
sites, or on the basis of sufficient proof determines that production is
allocated thereto from an adjacent, adjoining or near by drilling district or
districts under a unit or pooling agreement. In such cases a Zoning
Administrator may if he finds that good and reasonable cause exists therefor,
extend the termination date of the expiring district to coincide with the
termination date of the other district or districts in which the one or more
common controlled drilling sites are located or from which production is
allocated under a unit or pooling agreement. A Zoning Administrator may
terminate any such district when the reasons for such extension no longer apply.
(Amended by Ord. No. 134,135, Eff. 4/28/67.)	Any ordinance establishing a
non–urbanized district or district in the Los Angeles City Oil Field Area
shall become null and void one year after all wells in the district have been
abandoned in accordance with legal requirements, unless the Zoning
Administrator, on the basis of sufficient proof, determines that the district is
part of a group in which secondary hydrocarbon recovery operations are taking
place, and that production from an adjoining or adjacent district is allocated
thereto under a unit or pooling agreement. In such cases, a Zoning Administrator
may, if he finds that good and reasonable cause exists therefor, extend the
termination date to coincide with the termination date of the adjoining or
adjacent district in which secondary recovery operations are being conducted. A
Zoning Administrator may terminate any such district when the reasons for said
extension no longer apply. (Amended by Ord. No. 156,166, Eff. 1/24/82.)	Zoning
ordinance, prohibiting drilling of wells on tracts recently included in
residential zone not an unreasonable exercise of police power and does not
deprive lessee which acquired lease prior to zoning of property without due
process.
	Marblehead Land Co. v. City of Los Angeles, 47 Fed. 2d 528.
	Cromwell–Franklin Oil Co. v. Oklahoma City, 14 F.S. 370.
	Beverly Oil Co. v. City of Los Angeles, 40 Cal. 2d 552.
	Pacific Palisades Assn. v. City of Huntington Beach, 196 Cal.
211.	K.	Maintenance of Drilling and Production Sites (Added by Ord. No. 119,399,
Eff. 8/3/61.) Effective August 1,1962, the following regulations shall apply to
existing and future oil wells within the City of Los Angeles, including oil
wells operating pursuant to any zone variance, whether by ordinance or approval
of a Zoning Administrator, and all oil wells in an M3 Zone which are within 500
feet of a more restrictive zone:	1.	All stationary derricks, including their
floors and foundations, shall be removed within 30 days after completion or
abandonment of the well (notwithstanding any other provisions of this Code to
the contrary) or by September 1, 1962, whichever occurs later; and thereafter
any work done on any existing well which requires the use of a derrick shall be
done by a temporary or portable derrick. Such temporary or portable derricks
shall be removed within 30 days after the completion of such work.	2.	The
motors, engines, pumps and tanks of all such oil wells shall be sealed so that
no offensive or obnoxious odor or fumes can be readily detected from any point
on adjacent property.	3.	The well pumping equipment for such wells shall be
muffled or soundproofed so that the noise emanating therefrom, measured from any
point on adjacent property, is no more audible than surrounding street traffic,
commercial or industrial noises measured at the same point.	4.	The maximum
height of the pumping units for such wells shall not exceed 15 feet above
existing grade level.	5.	The site of such wells shall be so landscaped, fenced
or concealed that the well and all of its appurtenant apparatus is reasonably
protected against public entry, observation or attraction.	In addition to any
other authority vested in the Zoning Administrator by Charter and the Los
Angeles Municipal Code, a Zoning Administrator may waive or modify these
regulations if the drilling site is physically inaccessible to a portable
derrick, or is located in a mountainous and substantially uninhabited place, or
is located in an M Zone and is surrounded by vacant land or is adjacent to land
used as permitted in the M Zones and if the enforcement of such regulations
would be discriminatory, unreasonable or would impose a undue hardship upon oil
drilling in such locations. A Zoning Administrator may also waive or modify the
16–foot height limitation where, because of the amount of liquid to be raised
or the depths at which such fluids are encountered, pumping unit in excess of 16
feet in height is shown by conclusive engineering evidence to be required.
(Amended by Ord. No. 125,877, Eff. 11/29/63.)	All ordinances and parts of
ordinances of the City of Los Angeles in conflict herewith are hereby repealed
to the extent of such conflict.
