                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

“RFA” RESIDENTIAL FLOOR AREA DISTRICT. (§ 13.13)

  “RFA” RESIDENTIAL FLOOR AREA DISTRICT.
(Added by Ord. No. 179,883, Eff. 6/29/08.)	A.	Purpose.  This section sets forth
procedures and guidelines for the establishment of “RFA” Residential Floor
Area Districts in residential areas of the City.  The purpose of the “RFA”
Residential Floor Area District is to permit residential floor area maximums in
residential zones to be higher or lower than normally permitted by this Code in
areas where the proposed district will further enhance the existing scale of
homes and help to preserve the existing character of the neighborhood as
effectively as the residential floor area limitations established in this Code;
and where the increased or decreased residential floor area maximums will be
consistent with the policies and objectives set forth in the applicable
Community Plan.	B.	Establishment of the District.  The procedures set forth in
Section 12.32 S. of this Code shall be followed, however each “RFA”
Residential Floor Area District shall include only properties in the RA, RE, RS,
or R1 zones.  The district shall not generally be less than 100 acres in
area.  The precise boundary of a district may be adjusted for urban features
such as topography, freeways or streets/ highways.  Boundaries shall be along
street frontages and shall not split parcels.  An “RFA” Residential Floor
Area District may encompass an area, which is designated, in whole or in part,
as a Historic Preservation Overlay Zone and/or Specific Plan.  The “RFA”
Residential Floor Area District shall include contiguous parcels, which may only
be separated by public streets, ways or alleys or other physical features, or as
set forth in the rules approved by the Director of Planning.  Precise
boundaries are required at the time of application for or initiation of an
individual district.	C.	Development Regulations.  The Department of Building
and Safety shall not issue a building permit for a residential structure within
an “RFA” Residential Floor Area District unless the residential structure
conforms to the regulations set forth in a specific “RFA” Residential Floor
Area District.  The development regulations for each “RFA” Residential
Floor Area District shall be determined at the time the district is
established.  The development regulations shall enhance the character of the
district.
