                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

“HS” HILLSIDE STANDARDS OVERLAY DISTRICT. (§ 13.16)

  “HS” HILLSIDE STANDARDS OVERLAY DISTRICT.
	(Added by Ord. No. 181,624, Eff. 5/9/11.)	A.	Purpose.  This Section sets forth
procedures and guidelines for the establishment of “HS” Hillside Standards
Overlay Districts in single-family residential neighborhoods in designated
Hillside Areas, as defined in Section 12.03 of this Chapter, throughout the
City.  The purpose of the “HS” Hillside Standards Overlay District is to
permit Residential Floor Area, height, and Grading limits in the R1, RS, RE, and
RA zones to be higher or lower than normally permitted by this Code in areas
where the proposed overlay will further enhance the existing scale of homes
and/or help to preserve the existing character of the neighborhood as
effectively as the limitations or requirements otherwise established in this
Code; and where these changes will be consistent with the policies and
objectives set forth in the applicable Community Plan.	B.	Establishment of the
District.  The procedures set forth in Section 12.32 S. of this Code shall be
followed, however, each “HS” Hillside Standards Overlay District shall
include only properties in the RA, RE, RS, or R1 zones.  The overlay shall not
generally be less than 100 acres in area; however, the 100 acres do not need to
be within one contiguous boundary as long as no one subarea is less than 25
acres in area, and the entire 100 acres is located within an overall area of 200
contiguous acres.  The precise boundary of a district may be adjusted for urban
features such as topography, freeways or Streets/Highways.  Boundaries shall be
along Street Frontages and shall not split parcels.  An “HS” Hillside
Standards Overlay District may encompass an area, which is designated, in whole
or in part, as a Historic Preservation Overlay Zone and/or Specific Plan.  The
“HS” Hillside Standards Overlay District shall include contiguous parcels,
which may only be separated by public Streets, ways or alleys or other physical
features, or as set forth in the rules approved by the Director of Planning. 
Precise boundaries are required at the time of application for, or initiation
of, an individual overlay.	C.	Development Regulations.  The Department of
Building and Safety shall not issue a Building permit for a residential
Structure within an “HS” Hillside Standards Overlay District unless the
residential Structure conforms to the regulations set forth in a specific
“HS” Hillside Standards Overlay District.  The development regulations for
each “HS” Hillside Standards Overlay District shall be limited to changes in
the numerical values of the Residential Floor Area, height, and Grading limits
in the R1, RS, RE, and RA zones stated in this Chapter (Subdivision 10. of
Subsection C. of Section 12.21 – Paragraphs (a) Residential Floor Area, (d)
Height Limits, and (f) Grading) and shall not result in a substantial deviation
in approach, method of calculation, or measurement from the corresponding
language already in place in this Chapter 1.  The development regulations shall
be determined at the time the overlay is established.  The development
regulations shall serve to enhance the existing or envisioned character of the
overlay.
