                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

MODIFIED PARKING REQUIREMENT (MPR) DISTRICT. (§ 13.15)

  MODIFIED PARKING REQUIREMENT (MPR) DISTRICT.
	(Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 182,242, Eff. 10/9/12.)	A.	Establishment
of Districts.  The procedures to establish a Modified Parking Requirement (MPR)
District shall be as set forth in Section 12.32 S. of this Code.  With the
exception of the Adaptive Reuse Incentives Areas Specific Plan and the South
Central Alcohol Sales Specific Plan, no MPR District shall be established in an
area governed by a specific plan established before or after the effective date
of this ordinance.  Each ordinance creating an MPR District shall establish one
or more of the strategies listed in Subsection D. for the District area.	B.	Size
and Boundaries.  An MPR District shall encompass a minimum of two entire block
faces (as defined in Section 13.09 B.3. of this Code) or a minimum of five acres
in area.  The boundaries of the MPR District shall be set by
ordinance.	C.	Findings.  In making the report required by Section 12.32 C.2. of
this Code, the City Planning Commission shall also report to the Council on
whether the District, and the strategies included in the District, are
appropriate considering such factors as local transit service and dependency,
automobile usage, traffic, available parking, and the goals, policies, and
objectives set forth in the applicable community plan.	D.	Modified Parking
Requirement (MPR) District Strategies.  Any ordinance creating an MPR District
shall adopt one or more of the seven strategies listed in this subsection for
the MPR District area.	1.	Change of Use Parking Standards.  The required number
of parking spaces for any permitted use in the District shall be the same as the
number of spaces that exist on the lot on the date the ordinance creating the
District becomes effective.	2.	Off-site Parking.  The  parking spaces required
by Section 12.21 A.4. of this Code shall be provided either on the same lot as
the use for which they are intended to serve or 1,500 feet therefrom.  If
parking spaces are provided off-site, they must be guaranteed through a recorded
covenant agreement that reserves the spaces exclusively for the use in
question.  Distance is to be measured along any street, alley, public walk, or
private easement that allows public pedestrian travel from the parking area to
the use it is to serve.	3.	Parking Reduction Approval.  A Zoning Administrator
may approve reduced parking requirements for individual projects pursuant to
Section 12.24 X.30. of this Code.	4.	Decreased Parking Requirements.  An MPR
District may establish parking requirements that are less restrictive than those
set forth in Section 12.21 A.4. of this Code.  The ordinance creating the
District shall identify each use that is granted modified parking requirements,
along with each use’s new parking requirement.  Otherwise, the number of
required parking spaces shall be governed by Section 12.21 A.4.  Before
adopting any ordinance creating an MPR District that includes Decreased Parking
Requirements, the City Council must find that:	a.	The parking reduction, taking
into account impacts such as parking overflow and increased traffic congestion
and potential benefits such as enhanced mobility and neighborhood vitality, will
not adversely affect the surrounding neighborhood; and	b.	There exists a
combination of parking management programs, transportation alternatives, or
other infrastructure improvements, and commercial building access programs that
negate the need for increased parking requirements; and	c.	Flexible
transportation approaches and parking management programs are more consistent
with the area’s air quality goals, community character and general plan than
an increased number of required parking spaces.	5.	Increased Parking
Requirements.  An MPR District may establish parking requirements that are more
restrictive than those required in Paragraph 12.21 A.4. of this Code.  The
ordinance creating the District shall identify each use that is assigned
increased parking requirements, along with each use’s new parking
requirement.  Otherwise, the number of required spaces shall be governed by
Section 12.21 A.4.  Before adopting any ordinance creating an MPR District that
includes Increased Parking Requirements, the City Council must find
that:	a.	There is a lack of transit service in the area; or	b.	There is a high
potential for spillover parking impacts on adjacent residential areas;
or	c.	There is a low probability that parking management programs,
transportation demand management programs, or public parking facilities will be
available or effective in the area.	6.	Commercial Parking Credits.  An MPR
District may authorize parking requirements to be satisfied through the creation
of a parking credit program.  The number of available parking credits shall be
established by a survey that identifies the number of underutilized public
parking spaces available within the District at various times of the day.  The
ordinance creating the District shall list the number of credits available in
the area, and the number of credits required to support a specific use for
various times of the day.	7.	Maximum Parking Requirements.  An MPR District may
establish maximum parking requirements.  The ordinance creating the District
shall set forth each use for which maximum parking requirements apply, as well
as the specific parking limits for that use.  Otherwise, the parking
requirements set forth in Section 12.21 A.4. shall apply.	E.	Applicability of
Modified Parking Strategies to Residential Uses.  This Section shall apply to
lots where the zoning regulations permit multi-residential uses as
follows:	1.	An MPR District shall not authorize any of the strategies listed
above, except for the strategies described in subsections D.5. and D.6., for any
lot that contained a residential use subject to the Rent Stabilization
Ordinance, or that contained any Restricted Affordable units, as defined in
Section 12.22 A.25.(b) of the Code, within the five years preceding the adoption
of the MPR District.  Required parking on such properties, however, may be
reduced pursuant to Section 12.22 A.25. of the Code, or pursuant to any other
applicable affordable housing incentive program.	2.	Minimum parking requirements
for multi-residential uses in an MPR district shall be less restrictive for
projects that qualify for a density bonus under Section 12.22 A.25. of the Code.
