                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

“NSO” NEIGHBORHOOD STABILIZATION OVERLAY DISTRICT. (§ 13.12)

  “NSO” NEIGHBORHOOD STABILIZATION OVERLAY DISTRICT.
	(Added by Ord. No. 180,219, Eff. 11/16/08.)	A.	Purpose.  This section sets
forth procedures, guidelines and standards for the establishment of “NSO”
Neighborhood Stabilization Overlay Districts in areas of the City that are
proximate to colleges and universities.  The purpose of the NSO District is to
protect and preserve the existing low density housing stock; to maintain and
enhance the quality of life of area residents; to promote well-planned student
housing; to establish regulations that address the negative impacts
multi-habitable room projects cause; to address inadequate parking; to prevent
irreversible damage associated with oversized multi-habitable room projects and
to help stabilize neighborhoods.  The purpose of the NSO District is also to
ensure that future Projects are designed to be compatible with buildings that
are adjacent or across the street.	B.	Establishment of the
District.	1.	Requirements.  Each application for the establishment of a
“NSO” Neighborhood Stabilization Overlay District shall follow the
procedures set forth in Section 12.32 S. of this Code, except that each
“NSO” Neighborhood Stabilization Overlay District shall include only
properties in the R2, RD, R3, RAS, R4, R5, CR, C1, C1.5, C2, C4, C5 or CM
zones.	2.	Radius.  The radius of a “NSO” Neighborhood Stabilization Overlay
District shall be at least one-quarter mile and no more than one mile from the
physical boundaries of a college or university.  The District shall not
generally be less than one-quarter mile radius wide.	3.	Boundaries.  The
boundaries shall be along street frontages and shall not split parcels.  The
precise boundary of a District may be adjusted for urban features such as
topography, freeways or streets / highways.  Precise boundaries are required at
the time of application for or initiation of an individual District.  The
“NSO” Neighborhood Stabilization Overlay District shall include contiguous
parcels of residentially and commercially zoned parcels, which may only be
separated by public streets, ways or alleys or other physical features, or as
set forth in the rules approved by the Director of Planning.  A “NSO”
Neighborhood Stabilization Overlay District may encompass an area that is
designated, in whole or in part, as a Historic Preservation Overlay Zone and/or
Specific Plan area.	4.	Definitions.  Notwithstanding any other provision of
this article to the contrary, the following definitions shall apply to this
section:	Affordable Housing Units.  Dwelling units or guest rooms for which
rental payments do not exceed the limits established by the Housing Department
for persons and families whose income does not exceed 30%-120% of Area Median
Income (AMI), adjusted for family size by the United States Department of
Housing and Urban Development in accordance with adjustment factors established
and amended from time to time pursuant to Section 8 of the United States Housing
Act of 1937.  The income limits are defined as lower, low, moderate, very low,
or extremely low income households in Sections 50079.5, 50093, 50105 and 50106
of the California Health and Safety Code.	Area Median Income (AMI).  The median
income in Los Angeles County as determined annually by the California Department
of Housing and Community Development (HCD) or any successor agency, adjusted for
household size.	Project.  The construction, erection, addition to, enlargement
of or reconfiguration of any one-family dwelling or multiple-family dwelling
units or portions of dwelling units in the R2, RD, R3, RAS, R4, R5, CR, C1,
C1.5, C2, C4, C5 or CM zones that create at least one dwelling unit with five or
more habitable rooms.	A project shall not include any of the following
uses:	(1)	Dormitories on an official college or university campus; or	(2)	Any
qualifying Affordable Housing Units.	5.	Findings.  In order to establish a
“NSO” Neighborhood Stabilization Overlay District, the City Council shall
find that Neighborhood Stabilization Overlay regulations will protect and
enhance the character of the District by regulating building bulk caused by
buildings with five or more habitable rooms per unit; and that the District is
negatively impacted by excessive on-street parking resulting from residential
units designed for student housing, which do not provide adequate off-street
parking.	C.	Development Regulations.  All property within a District shall be
subject to the following conditions:	1.	Building Permit.  The Department of
Building and Safety shall not issue a building permit for a Project within a
“NSO” Neighborhood Stabilization Overlay District unless a conditional use
approval has been granted pursuant to Section 12.24 W.52. of this
Code.	2.	Parking Requirements.  Any Project shall, in addition to complying
with the parking requirements of Section 12.21 A.4.(a) of this Code, also
provide one additional parking space for each habitable room at or above five
habitable rooms.
