                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

“SN” SIGN DISTRICT. (§ 13.11)

  “SN” SIGN DISTRICT.
	(Added by Ord. No. 174,552, Eff. 6/16/02.)	A.	Purpose.  This section sets
forth procedures, guidelines and standards for the establishment of “SN”
Sign Districts in areas of the City, the unique characteristics of which can be
enhanced by the imposition of special sign regulations designed to enhance the
theme or unique qualities of that district, or which eliminate blight through a
sign reduction program.	B.	Establishment of Districts.  The procedures set
forth in Section 12.32S shall be followed, however each “SN” Sign District
shall include only properties in the C or M Zones, except that R5 Zone
properties may be included in a “SN” Sign District provided that the R5
zoned lot is located within an area designated on an adopted community plan as a
“Regional Center,” “Regional Commercial,” or “High Intensity
Commercial,” or within any redevelopment project area.  No “SN” Sign
District shall contain less than one block or three acres in area, whichever is
the smaller.  The total acreage in the district shall include contiguous
parcels of land which may only be separated by public streets, ways or alleys,
or other physical features, or as set forth in the rules approved by the
Director of Planning.  Precise boundaries are required at the time of
application for or initiation of an individual district.	C.	Development
Regulations.  The Department of Building and Safety shall not issue a building
permit for a sign within a “SN” Sign District unless the sign conforms to
the regulations set forth in a specific “SN” Sign District ordinance.  The
development regulations for each “SN” Sign District shall be determined at
the time the district is established, except that definitions shall conform with
those found in Section 91.6203 of this Code, if defined in that section.  The
sign regulations shall enhance the character of the district by addressing the
location, number, square footage, height, light illumination, hours of
illumination, sign reduction program, duration of signs, design and types of
signs permitted, as well as other characteristics, and can include murals,
supergraphics, and other on-site and off-site signs.  However, the regulations
for a “SN” Sign District cannot supersede the regulations of an Historic
Preservation Overlay District, a legally-adopted specific plan, supplemental use
district or zoning regulation needed to implement the provisions of an approved
development agreement.
