                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

“CPIO” COMMUNITY PLAN IMPLEMENTATION OVERLAY DISTRICT. (§ 13.14)

  “CPIO” COMMUNITY PLAN IMPLEMENTATION OVERLAY DISTRICT.
	(Added by Ord. No. 181,412, Eff. 1/2/11.)	A.	Purpose.  This section sets forth
procedures, guidelines, and standards for establishment of the “CPIO”
Community Plan Implementation Overlay Districts within any zone in the City. 
The purpose of the CPIO District is to provide for supplemental development
regulations tailored to each Community Plan area to:	1.	Ensure that development
enhances the unique architectural, environmental, and cultural qualities of each
Community Plan area, integrates improvements and enhancements to the public
right-of-way, and maintains compatible land uses, scale, intensity, and
density;	2.	Create an approval process to enable infill development that will
positively impact communities.	B.	Relationship to Other Zoning Regulations. 
Where the provisions of a CPIO District conflict with those of a Specific Plan
or Historic Preservation Overlay Zone (HPOZ), then the provisions of the
Specific Plan or HPOZ shall prevail.  Regulations contained in the CPIO
District dealing with uses, height, floor area ratio, and/or signage shall be
more restrictive than applicable regulations in the underlying zone(s) and other
supplemental use districts.  If the provisions of the CPIO conflict with any
other City-wide regulations in the Los Angeles Municipal Code or supplemental
use districts other than a Specific Plan or HPOZ, then the requirements of the
CPIO District shall prevail.	C.	Establishment of the District.	1.	Initiation. 
The initiation of the establishment of a CPIO District or a change in boundaries
of a district shall follow the procedures set forth in Section 12.32 of this
Code.  In addition, each CPIO District shall have a minimum of one mapped CPIO
District Subarea, as defined in Subsection D. of this section, to enable the
initiation and activation of a CPIO District for an entire Community Plan
Area.	2.	Zoning Classification.  At the time of establishment, the City Council
may, pursuant to Section 12.32 of this Code, adopt an ordinance to amend Section
12.04 of this Code to establish a zoning classification to indicate the
Community Plan Area in which the CPIO is located and the corresponding Subarea
as defined in Subsection E. of this section.	3.	Boundaries.  A CPIO District
shall share the boundaries of a Community Plan and contain at least one
Subarea.  Precise boundaries of the Subarea are required at the time of
application for or initiation of an individual District.	4.	Amendments to a
CPIO.  The procedures for amending a CPIO District or its Subareas, or adopting
additional Subareas within an established CPIO District, are set forth in
Subsections A., C., and E. of Section 12.32.	5.	Findings.  In adopting a CPIO
District, the City Council shall find that the supplemental development
regulations of the CPIO District are consistent with, and necessary to
implement, the programs, policies, or urban design guidelines of the Community
Plan for that area.	D.	Definitions.	Community Plan Implementation Overlay (CPIO)
Subarea.  A further defined area within the CPIO District in which Community
Plan programs and/or policies are implemented through supplemental development
regulations.  Subareas may be contiguous or non-contiguous parcels
characterized by common Community Plan goals, themes and policies and grouped by
a common boundary.	E.	Content of a CPIO District.  Each CPIO District shall
contain the following:	1.	Subarea Boundaries.  A map showing all sites within
the District’s Subarea(s).	2.	Project.  A definition of the term
“Project”, which shall set forth the type of developments or uses subject to
the supplemental development regulations and/or processes.  The District may
define the term “Project” differently for each Subarea.	3.	Supplemental
Development Regulations.  Supplemental development regulations and definitions
that may apply to any zone and/or public right-of-way within a CPIO District’s
Subarea(s).	F.	Issuance of Permits.  For all Projects within a CPIO Subarea,
the Department of Building and Safety shall not issue a grading, building or
change of use permit unless an Administrative Clearance, CPIO Adjustment, or
CPIO Exception has been obtained pursuant to the applicable procedures in
Subsection G.	G.	Review Procedures for Projects within a CPIO District.  For
all Projects within a CPIO District’s Subarea(s), an applicant shall follow
the applicable procedures set forth below:	1.	Application.  All Projects
proposed within a CPIO District shall be submitted with an application for a
CPIO approval to be filed with the Department of City Planning on a form
provided by the Department, and include all information required by the
instructions on the application and the guidelines adopted by the Director of
Planning.  Prior to deeming the application complete, the Director shall
determine and, if necessary, advise the applicant of the processes to be
followed, materials to be submitted, and fees to be paid.  The granting of a
CPIO approval shall not imply, or be deemed to constitute, compliance with any
other applicable provisions of this Code.	2.	Administrative Clearance –
Authority of the Director.  An applicant for a Project that complies with the
provisions of an adopted CPIO District shall submit plans to the Director for an
Administrative Clearance pursuant to Section 12.32 S.4.  Projects which do not
comply with the applicable CPIO District regulations may request relief through
the procedures set forth in Subsections 3. and 4. of this section.	3.	Community
Plan Implementation Overlay Adjustment – Director Authority with Appeals to
the Area Planning Commission.  The Director or the Director’s designee shall
have initial decision-making authority to grant a CPIO Adjustment with an appeal
to the Area Planning Commission in accordance with the procedures set forth in
Section 11.5.7 C.4. – 6. of this Code.	(a)	Limitations.  Unless otherwise
limited by a CPIO District or CPIO District Subarea, a CPIO Adjustment shall be
limited to deviations of up to 20 percent from the quantitative supplemental
development regulations or minor adjustments from the qualitative supplemental
development regulations in an adopted CPIO Subarea.	Each adopted CPIO ordinance
shall indicate those development regulations which are not eligible for an
adjustment through this Section.  If an application requests more than one CPIO
Adjustment, the Director may advise the applicant, prior to the application
being deemed complete, that the request be filed and processed as a CPIO
exception, pursuant to Subsection 4. of this section.  To the extent that a
CPIO contains sign regulations, signs shall not qualify for relief through a
CPIO Adjustment.  All other Projects seeking relief from any development
regulation which contains prohibition language, or development regulations
otherwise designated in the CPIO as not eligible for adjustments, shall be
processed through the CPIO Exception procedures listed under Subsection 4. of
this section.	(b)	Findings.  The Director’s determination shall include
written findings in support of the determination.  In order to approve a
proposed project pursuant to this subsection, the Director must find
that:	(i)	There are special circumstances applicable to the project or project
site which make the strict application of the CPIO regulation(s)
impractical;	(ii)	The project, as approved, is consistent with the purpose and
intent of the CPIO and substantially complies with the applicable CPIO
regulations;	(iii)	In granting the adjustment, the Director has considered and
found no detrimental effects of the adjustment on surrounding properties or
public rights-of-way;	(iv)	The project incorporates mitigation measures,
monitoring of measures when necessary, or alternatives identified in the
environmental review which would mitigate the negative environmental effects of
the project, to the extent physically feasible; and	(v)	The project is
compatible with the neighborhood character of the CPIO District
Subarea.	4.	Exceptions from a “CPIO” – Area Planning Commission Authority
with Appeals to the City Council.	(a)	Area Planning Commission Authority.  The
Area Planning Commission shall have initial decision-making authority for
granting exceptions from CPIO regulations with an appeal to the City Council in
accordance with the procedures set forth in Subdivisions 3. – 8. of Subsection
F. of Section 11.5.7 of this Code.	In granting an exception from CPIO
regulations, the Area Planning Commission shall impose conditions to remedy any
resulting disparity of privilege, to protect the public health, safety, welfare,
and to assure compliance with the objectives of the General Plan and the purpose
and intent of the CPIO District.  An exception from a CPIO regulation shall not
be used to grant a special privilege, nor to grant relief from self-imposed
hardships.	(b)	Findings.  The Area Planning Commission may permit an exception
from a CPIO regulation not involving signage if it makes all the following
findings:	(i)	The strict application of the CPIO regulations to the subject
property would result in practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships
inconsistent with the general purpose and intent of the CPIO District and its
regulations;	(ii)	There are exceptional circumstances or conditions applicable
to the subject property involved or to the intended use or development of the
subject property that do not apply generally to other properties in the CPIO
District and/or Subarea;	(iii)	An exception from the CPIO regulation is
necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a substantial property right or
use generally possessed by other property within the CPIO District and/or
Subarea in the same zone and vicinity but which, because of special
circumstances and practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships, is denied to
the property in question;	(iv)	The granting of an exception will not be
detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to the property or improvements
adjacent to or in the vicinity of the subject property; and	(v)	The granting of
an exception will be consistent with the principles, intent and goals of the
CPIO District and/or Subarea and any applicable element of the General Plan.	The
Area Planning Commission may permit an exception from a CPIO regulation
concerning signage if it makes all the following findings:	(i)	Strict compliance
would result in practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship inconsistent with
the purposes of the zoning restrictions due to unique existing physical
circumstances on the subject property;	(ii)	An exception from the CPIO
regulation is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a substantial
property right or use generally possessed by other property within the CPIO
District and/or Subarea in the same zone and vicinity but which, because of
special circumstances and practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships, is
denied to the property in question;	(iii)	The exception would not constitute a
special grant of privilege.
