                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

FENCE HEIGHTS DISTRICT. (§ 13.10)

  FENCE HEIGHTS DISTRICT.
	(New Sec. 13.10 Added by Ord. No. 172,460, Eff. 3/22/99.)	A.	Purpose.  This
section sets forth procedures, guidelines and standards for the establishment of
Fence Height Districts (FH) in residential areas of the City.  The purpose of
the Fence Height District (FH) is to permit open wrought iron fences in the
front yards of properties in residential zones to be higher than normally
permitted by this Code in areas where special circumstances such as a high rate
of residential burglary or other crimes, or the character of the neighborhood
necessitates the erection of those fences.	B.	Establishment of Districts.  The
procedures set forth in Section 12.32 S. shall be followed except that each
Fence Height District (FH) shall include only lots which are in residential
zones, and shall not include lots which are in Hillside Areas, in the Coastal
Zone, in Historic Preservation Overlay Zones, or in Specific Plan Areas. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)	C.	Development Regulations. 
Fences not exceeding six feet in height above the adjacent natural ground level
are permitted in the required front yards of lots in a Fence Height District
(FH), provided that:	1.	The fences are of open wrought iron, with any solid
portion of the fence, including vegetation or similar obstruction, not exceeding
three and one-half feet in height.	2.	The fences may be supported by solid
six-foot high pilasters with a maximum dimension of 24 inches and spaced not
less than eight feet apart on center.	3.	No vertical wrought iron member shall
be greater than 5/8 inches in diameter nor spaced less than four inches apart on
center.	4.	No horizontal wrought iron member shall be greater than one inch in
diameter nor spaced less than 18 inches apart on center.	5.	No vegetation of any
type which produces a hedge-like effect shall be allowed to grow upon or
adjacent to the fence to a height above three foot six inches.	6.	The wrought
iron fence and pilasters shall be setback from the front property line a minimum
of 18 inches and shall be maintained with landscaping and serviced by an
automatic irrigation system.	7.	A minimum five-foot by five-foot cut corner
shall be provided wherever the wrought iron fence meets the driveway.	8.	All
lighting fixtures supported by the fence, if provided, shall be in full
compliance with the Los Angeles Municipal Code with regard to illumination and
an after-hours inspection shall be requested by the owner to assure levels of
illumination are acceptable.  This inspection shall be conducted by the
Lighting Enforcement Division of the Department of Building and Safety and a fee
paid for the inspection by the applicant.	9.	Any driveway gate(s) shall be of
open wrought iron, and if provided, shall be no more than six feet in height and
shall either be sliding or be designed to open inward to the property.  If an
electric driveway gate of open wrought iron is provided, it shall have a gate
operator approved by an approved testing laboratory and shall incorporate a
safety device to interrupt gate operation in case the gate becomes
blocked.	10.	A 10-foot by 10-foot visibility triangle pursuant to Section
12.21C7(a) shall be provided on corner lots and the fence shall be clear of any
obstruction above three feet six inches.	11.	If any pilaster is within five feet
of a driveway, a convex mirror at least 12 inches in diameter shall be placed so
as to provide visibility in the direction blocked by the pilaster for the
drivers of vehicles exiting the driveway.
