                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PUBLIC BENEFIT PROJECTS. (§ 14.00)

  PUBLIC BENEFIT PROJECTS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)

	A.	and Performance Standards.  Where not permitted by right or by Conditional
Use Permit pursuant to Subsections U, V or W of Section 12.24, the following
public benefit uses are permitted in any zone, unless restricted to certain
zones or locations.  The uses shall meet the following performance standards or
alternative compliance measures approved pursuant to Subsection B.  (First
Para. Amended by Ord. No. 173,992, Eff. 7/6/01.)

	1.	Cemeteries.

	(a)	Performance Standards:

	(1)	All buildings on the site are at least 300 feet from any adjoining street
or any A or R zoned property or residential use;

	(2)	Security night lighting is shielded so that the light source cannot be seen
from adjacent residential properties;

	(3)	There is a solid, decorative, masonry or wrought iron wall or fence at
least eight feet in height, or the maximum height permittee by the zone,
whichever is less.  The wall or fence encircles the periphery of the property
and does not extend into the required front yard setback;

	(4)	The front yard setback is as least as deep as the setback required by the
zone;

	(5)	The property is improved with a ten foot landscaped buffer along the
periphery of the property which is maintained and is equipped with an automatic
irrigation system;

	(6)	The site has only one double-faced monument sign, with a maximum of 20
square feet per side;

	(7)	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  All graffiti on the site is
removed or painted over in the same  color as the surface to which it is
applied within 24 hours of its occurrence;

	(8)	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  All streets, alleys or
sidewalks adjoining the property meet  standard street dimensions;

	(9)	(Added by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  The use meets the parking
requirements of Section 12.21 A; and

	(10)	(Added by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  The property has sufficient
areas for assembly.

	(b)	Purposes:  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  The purposes of
these Performance Standards are to provide landscaping, open space, scale, bulk,
height, yards and setbacks,  particularly with regard to the main building,
which are similar to those in the adjacent properties in the neighborhood. 
Signage, where permitted by city regulations, should not exceed in size or
number those located on the same block or across the street from the site.  The
noise levels created on the site should not increase the ambient noise level on
adjoining or abutting properties after completion of the project.  Sufficient
off-street parking should be provided so as to preclude the need for utilization
of on-street parking by the use allowed on the site.  Assembly areas for
funeral services should be located so as not to block the City streets.  City
streets should meet City standards in order to ensure safe vehicular ingress and
egress to the site and to ensure that traffic does not exceed the current level
of service.  Ingress and egress to the main buildings or uses on the site
should be sufficient to accommodate expected usage by the public and/or
occupants of the facility.  Access to and from the site should be sufficient to
meet police and fire safety needs beyond the explicit requirements of City codes
as determined by the Police, Fire and Building and Safety Departments. 
Lighting on the site should be located so as to not reflect on adjoining
residential uses.  A decorative wall or fence should be located to ensure
protection for the site and adjacent uses.  Graffiti should be prevented and
eliminated when it is found on the site.

	2.	Density increase for a Housing Development Project to provide for additional
density in excess of that permitted in Section 12.22 A.25.  (Subdivision Title
Amended by Ord. No. 179,681, Eff. 4/15/08.)

	(a)	Performance Standards:

	(1)	The development project contains the requisite number of affordable and/or
senior citizen units as set forth in California Government Code Section
65915(b);

	(2)	The development project complies with the standards contained in the
Affordable Housing Incentives Guidelines approved by the City Planning
Commission;

	(3)	The use is conducted in conformance with the City’s noise regulations
pursuant to Chapter 11 of this Code;

	(4)	No buildings are higher than any main building on adjoining property;

	(5)	All portions of the required front yard not used for necessary driveways
and walkways, including decorative walkways, are landscaped and maintained, not
otherwise paved, and equipped with an automatic irrigation system;

	(6)	The development meets the open space requirements of Section 12.21G;

	(7)	Only one identification sign is displayed on the site and it is on the
building face.  The sign does not exceed 20 square feet, does not extend more
than two feet beyond the wall of the building, and does not project above the
roof ridge or parapet wall (whichever is higher) of the building;

	(8)	Security night lighting is shielded so that the light source cannot be seen
from adjacent residential properties;

	(9)	Yards, at a minimum, should meet Code requirements or those prevalent on
adjoining or abutting properties, whichever is the most restrictive;

	(10)	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  All graffiti on the site
is removed or painted over in the same color as the surface to which it is
applied within 24 hours of its occurrence;

	(11)	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  Parking areas are
landscaped pursuant to the requirements of Section 12.21A6;

	(12)	(Added by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  All streets, alleys and
sidewalks adjoining the property meet standard street dimensions;

	(13)	(Amended by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)  A solid, decorative,
masonry or wrought iron wall or fence at least six feet in height, or the
maximum height permitted by the zone, whichever is less.  The wall or fence
encircles the periphery of the property and does not extend into the required
front yard setback; and

	(14)	(Added by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  There are no outdoor public
telephones on the site.

	(b)	Purposes:  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  The purposes of
these Performance Standards are to provide for landscaping, open space, scale,
bulk, height, yards and setbacks, particularly with regard to the main
buildings, which are similar to those in the adjacent properties in the
neighborhood.  Signage, where permitted by City regulations, should not exceed
in size or number those located on the same block or across the street from the
site.  The noise levels created on the site should not increase the ambient
noise level so as to be disturbing to persons on adjoining or abutting
properties after completion of the project.  Public telephones on the site
should be located to discourage loitering.  Sufficient off-street parking
should be provided to preclude the need for utilization of on-street parking by
the use allowed on the site.  The proposed use should be designed in a manner
that will minimize the generation of loitering of individuals on or adjacent to
the site.  City streets should meet City standards in order to ensure safe
vehicular ingress and egress to the site and to ensure that traffic does not
exceed the current level of service.  Access to and from the site should be
sufficient to meet police and fire safety needs beyond the explicit requirements
of City codes as determined by the Police, Fire and Building and Safety
Departments.  Lighting on the site should not reflect on adjoining residential
uses.  Walls, fences, or other visible security devices should be similar to
those on the adjoining properties.  Graffiti should be prevented and eliminated
when it is found on the site.  The use should encourage the availability of
affordable housing.

	3.	Libraries, museums, fire or police stations or governmental enterprises
which are controlled by this article.

	(a)	Performance Standards:

	(1)	The use is conducted in conformance with the City’s noise regulations
pursuant to Chapter 11 of this Code;

	(2)	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  There are no outdoor public
telephones on the site;

	(3)	No buildings are higher than any structure on adjoining property;

	(4)	No guard dogs are used to patrol at night;

	(5)	There is no use of barbed, razor or concertina wire;

	(6)	Security lighting is provided in parking areas;

	(7)	Setbacks are at least as deep as required for institutions by Section
12.21C3;

	(8)	The property is improved with a ten foot landscaped buffer along the
periphery of the property which is maintained and is equipped with an automatic
irrigation system;

	(9)	Parking areas are landscaped pursuant to the requirements of Section
12.21A6;

	(10)	Only one identification sign is displayed on the site and it is on the
building face.  The sign does not exceed 20 square feet, and does not extend
more than two feet beyond the wall of the building, and does not project above
the roof ridge or parapet wall (whichever is higher) of the building;

	(11)	Security night lighting is shielded so that the light source cannot be
seen from adjacent residential properties;

	(12)	All graffiti on the site is removed or painted over in the same color as
the surface to which it is applied within 24 hours of its occurrence;

	(13)	The use meets the parking requirements of Section 12.21A;

	(14)	The site is a corner site;

	(15)	The majority of the frontage is on a major or secondary highway; and

	(16)	All streets, alleys and sidewalks adjoining the property meet standard
street dimensions.

	(b)	Purposes:  The purposes of these Performance Standards are to provide for
landscaping, open space, scale, bulk, height, yards and setbacks,  particularly
with regard to the main buildings, which are similar to those in the adjacent
properties in the neighborhood.  Signage, where permitted by city regulations,
should not exceed in size or number those located on the same block or across
the street from the site.  The noise levels created on the site should not
increase the ambient noise level on adjoining or abutting properties after
completion of the project.  Public telephones on the site should be located to
discourage loitering.  Sufficient off-street parking should be provided to
preclude the need for utilization of on-street parking by the use allowed on the
site.  The proposed use should be designed in a manner that will minimize the
generation of loitering of individuals on or adjacent to the site.  City
streets should meet City standards in order to ensure safe vehicular ingress and
egress to the site and to ensure that traffic does not exceed the current level
of service.  Ingress and egress to the main buildings or uses on the site are
sufficient to accommodate expected usage by the public and/or occupants of the
facility.  Access to and from the site should be sufficient to meet police and
fire safety needs beyond the explicit requirements of City codes as determined
by the Police, Fire and Building and Safety Departments.  Lighting on the site
should not reflect on adjoining residential uses.  Walls, fences, or other
visible security devices should be similar to those on the adjoining
properties.  Graffiti should be prevented and eliminated when it is found on
the site.

	4.	Mobile home parks where any trailer or mobile home is permitted to remain
longer than one day, and which were lawfully in existence on December 6, 1986.

	(a)	Performance Standards:

	(1)	No buildings are higher than any main building on adjoining property or
across a street or alley from the use.

	(2)	The use is conducted in conformance with the City’s noise regulations
pursuant to Chapter 11 of this Code.

	(3)	There is a solid, decorative, masonry or wrought iron wall/fence at least
eight feet in height, or the maximum height permitted by the zone, whichever is
less.  The wall/fence encircles the periphery of the property and does not
extend into the required front yard setback.

	(4)	The front yard is at least as deep as the setback required by the zone.

	(5)	The property is improved with a ten foot landscaped buffer along the
periphery of the property, which is maintained and is equipped with an automatic
irrigation system.

	(6)	Parking areas are landscaped pursuant to the requirements of Section
12.21A6.

	(7)	All graffiti on the site is removed or painted over in the same color as
the surface to which it is applied within 24 hours of its occurrence.

	(8)	Only one identification sign is displayed on the site and it is on the
building face.  The sign does not exceed 20 square feet, and does not extend
more than two feet beyond the wall of the building, and does not project above
the roof ridge or parapet wall (whichever is higher) of the building.

	(9)	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  The use meets the parking
requirements of Section 12.21 A;

	(10)	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  All streets, alleys or
sidewalks adjoining the property meet standard street dimensions;

	(11)	(Added by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  There are no outdoor public
telephones on the site; and

	(12)	(Added by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  Security night lighting is
shielded so that the light source cannot be seen from adjacent residential
properties.

	(b)	Purposes:  The purposes of these Performance Standards are to provide for
landscaping, open space, scale, bulk, height, yards and setbacks,  particularly
with regard to the main buildings, which are similar to those in the adjacent
properties in the neighborhood.  Signage, where permitted by City regulations,
should not exceed in size or number those located on the same block or across
the street from the site.  The noise levels created on the site should not
increase the ambient noise level so as to disturb persons on adjoining or
abutting properties after completion of the project.  Public telephones on the
site should be located to discourage loitering.  Sufficient off-street parking
should be provided to preclude the need for utilization of on-street parking by
the use allowed on the site.  The proposed use should be designed in a manner
that will minimize the generation of loitering of individuals on or adjacent to
the site.  City streets should meet City standards in order to ensure safe
vehicular ingress and egress to the site and to ensure that traffic does not
exceed the current existing level of service.  Ingress and egress to the main
buildings or uses on the site are sufficient to accommodate expected usage by
the public and/or occupants of the facility.  Access to and from the site
should be sufficient to meet police and fire safety needs beyond the explicit
requirements of City codes as determined by the Police, Fire and Building and
Safety Departments.  Lighting on the site should not reflect on adjoining
residential uses.  Walls, fences, or other visible security devices should be
similar to those on the adjoining properties.  Graffiti should be prevented and
eliminated when it is found on the site.

	5.	Parks, playgrounds, or recreational or community centers in the A, R or C1
Zones.

	(a)	Performance Standards:

	(1)	The outdoor play/recreational area is at least 100 feet away from any A or
R zones or residential use;

	(2)	There are no outdoor public telephones on the site;

	(3)	There is no public address system or amplified sound on the site;

	(4)	The use is conducted in conformance with the City’s noise regulations set
forth in Chapter 11 of this Code;

	(5)	The hours of operation are restricted to between 7 a.m.  and 10 p.m. of
every day;

	(6)	There is no outdoor activity from dusk to dawn;

	(7)	No buildings are higher than any main building on adjoining property or
across the street or alley from the use;

	(8)	The property is improved with a ten foot landscaped buffer along the
periphery of the property, which is maintained and is equipped with an automatic
irrigation system;

	(9)	Only one identification sign is displayed on the site and it is on the
building face.  The sign does not exceed 20 square feet, does not extent more
than two feet beyond the wall of the building, and does not project above the
roof ridge or parapet wall (whichever is higher) of the building;

	(10)	Parking areas are landscaped pursuant to the requirements of Section
12.21A6;

	(11)	The use meets the parking requirements of Section 12.21A;

	(12)	The site is a corner site;

	(13)	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  The majority of the
frontage is on a major or secondary highway;

	(14)	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  All streets, alleys or
sidewalks adjoining the property meet standard street dimensions;

	(15)	(Added by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  Security night lighting is
shielded so that the light source cannot be seen from adjacent residential
properties; and

	(16)	(Added by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  All graffiti on the site is
removed or painted over in the same color as the surface to which it is applied
within 24 hours of its occurrence.

	(b)	Purposes:  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  The purposes of
these Performance Standards are to provide for landscaping, open space, scale,
bulk,  height, yards and setbacks,  particularly with respect to the main
buildings, which are similar to those in other properties in the neighborhood. 
Signage, where permitted by City regulations, should not exceed in size or
number those located on the same block or across the street from the site.  The
noise levels created on the site should not increase the ambient noise level on
adjoining or abutting properties after completion of the project.  When
adjacent to residential uses, the site should not be used at times or in a
manner that would be disturbing to neighbors.  Public telephones should not be
located in places where they would encourage loitering.  Sufficient off-street
parking should be provided to preclude the need for utilization of on-street
parking by the use allowed on the site.

	The proposed use should be designed so that loitering of individuals on or
adjacent to the site will not be generated by the use. City streets should meet
City standards in order to ensure safe vehicular ingress and egress to the site
and to ensure that traffic does not exceed the current level of service. 
Ingress and egress to the main building(s) or uses on the site should be
sufficient to accommodate expected usage by the public and/or occupants of the
facility.  Access to and from the site should be sufficient to meet police and
fire safety needs beyond the explicit requirements of City codes as determined
by the Police, Fire and Building and Safety Departments.  Lighting on the site
should be located so that it does not reflect on adjoining residential uses. 
Graffiti should be prevented or eliminated when it is found on the site.

	6.	Public utilities and public services uses and structures, except wireless
telecommunication facilities and radio or television transmitters in the A, R, C
or MR Zones.

	(a)	Performance Standards:

	(1)	Security night lighting is shielded so that the light source cannot be seen
from adjacent residential properties;

	(2)	The use is conducted in conformance with the City’s noise regulations
pursuant to Chapter 11 of this Code;

	(3)	There are no outdoor public telephones on the site;

	(4)	No buildings are higher than any building on adjoining property;

	(5)	No guard dogs are used to patrol at night;

	(6)	There is no use of barbed, razor or concertina wire;

	(7)	Security lighting is provided in parking areas;

	(8)	The property is improved with a ten foot landscaped buffer along the
periphery of the property which is maintained and is equipped with an automatic
irrigation system;

	(9)	Parking areas are landscaped pursuant to the requirements of Section
12.21A6;

	(10)	Only one identification sign is displayed on the site and it is on the
building face.  The sign does not exceed 20 square feet, and does not extend
more than two feet beyond the wall of the building, and does not project above
the roof ridge or parapet wall (whichever is higher) of the building;

	(11)	All graffiti on the site is removed or painted over in the same color as
the surface to which it is applied within 24 hours of its occurrence;

	(12)	The use meets the parking requirements of Section 12.21A;

	(13)	The site is a corner site;

	(14)	Yards, at a minimum, should meet Code requirements or those prevalent on
adjoining properties, whichever is the most restrictive;

	(15)	The majority of the frontage is on a major or secondary highway; and

	(16)	All streets, alleys or sidewalks adjoining the property meet standard
street dimensions.

	(b)	Purposes:  The purposes of these Performance Standards are to provide for
landscaping, open space, scale, bulk,  height, yards and setbacks, 
particularly with regard to the main buildings, which are similar to those in
the adjacent properties in the neighborhood.  Signage, where permitted by City
regulations, should not exceed in size or number of those located on the same
block or across the street from the site.  The noise levels created on the site
should not increase the ambient noise level on adjoining or abutting properties
after completion of the project.  Public telephones on the site should be
located to discourage loitering.  Sufficient off-street parking should be
provided to preclude the need for utilization of on-street parking by the use
allowed on the site.  The proposed use should be designed in a manner that will
minimize the generation of loitering of individuals on or adjacent to the
site.  City streets should meet City standards in order to ensure safe
vehicular ingress and egress to the site and to ensure that traffic does not
exceed the current level of service.  Ingress and egress to the main buildings
or uses on the site are sufficient to accommodate expected usage by the public
and/or occupants of the facility.  Access to and from the site should be
sufficient to meet police and fire safety needs beyond the explicit requirements
of City codes as determined by the Police, Fire and Building and Safety
Departments.  Lighting on the site should not reflect on adjoining residential
uses.  Walls, fences, or other visible security devices should be similar to
those on the adjoining properties.  Graffiti should be prevented and eliminated
when it is found on the site.

	7.	Recreational vehicle parks and mobile home parks in the A, R or C Zones
where any trailer, mobile home or recreational vehicle is permitted to remain
longer than one day and which were lawfully created after the effective date of
the ordinance adding this use to the Code.

	(a)	Performance Standards:

	(1)	No buildings are higher than any main building on adjoining property or
across a street or alley from the use;

	(2)	The use is conducted in conformance with the City’s noise regulations
pursuant to Chapter 11 of this Code;

	(3)	There is a solid decorative masonry or wrought iron wall/fence at least
eight feet in height, or the maximum height permitted by the zone, whichever is
less.  The wall/fence encircles the periphery of the property and does not
extend into the required front yard setback;

	(4)	The front yard setback is at least as deep as the setback required by the
zone;

	(5)	The property is improved with a ten foot landscaped buffer along the
periphery of the property, which is maintained and is equipped with an automatic
irrigation system;

	(6)	Parking areas are landscaped pursuant to the requirements of Section
12.21A6;

	(7)	Only one identification sign is displayed on the site and it is on the
building face.  The sign does not exceed 20 square feet, and does not extend
more than 2 feet beyond the wall of the building, and does not project above the
roof ridge or parapet wall (whichever is higher) of the building;

	(8)	All graffiti on the site is removed or painted over in the same color as
the surface to which it is applied within 24 hours of its occurrence;

	(9)	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  The use meets the parking
requirements of Section 12.21 A;

	(10)	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  All streets, alleys or
sidewalks adjoining the property meet standard street dimensions;

	(11)	(Added by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  There are no outdoor public
telephones on the site; and

	(12)	(Added by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  Security night lighting is
shielded so that the light source cannot be seen from adjacent residential
properties.

	(b)	Purposes:  The purposes of these Performance Standards are to provide for
landscaping, open space, scale, bulk, height, yards and setbacks,  particularly
with regard to the main buildings, which are similar to those in the adjacent
properties in the neighborhood.  Signage, where permitted by City regulations,
should not exceed in size or number those located on the same block or across
the street from the site.  The noise levels created on the site should not
increase the ambient noise level so as to be disturbing to persons on adjoining
or abutting properties after completion of the project.  Public telephones on
the site should be located to discourage loitering.  Sufficient off-street
parking should be provided to preclude the need for utilization of on-street
parking by the use allowed on the site.  The proposed use should be designed in
a manner that will minimize the generation of loitering of individuals on or
adjacent to the site.  City streets should meet City standards in order to
ensure safe vehicular ingress and egress to the site and to ensure that traffic
does not exceed the existing level of service.  Ingress and egress to the main
buildings or uses on the site are sufficient to accommodate expected usage by
the public and/or occupants of the facility.  Access to and from the site
should be sufficient to meet police and fire safety needs beyond the explicit
requirements of City codes as determined by the Police, Fire and Building and
Safety Departments.  Lighting on the site should not reflect on adjoining
residential uses.  Walls, fences, or other visible security devices should be
similar to those on the adjoining properties.  Graffiti should be prevented and
eliminated when it is found on the site.

	8.	Shelters for the homeless (as defined in Section 12.03) containing not more
than 30 beds are permitted by right in the R3, M1, M2 and M3 Zones with reduced
parking requirements.

	(a)	Performance Standards:

	(1)	There no other shelters for the homeless within 300 feet of the subject
property;

	(2)	The use is conducted in conformance with the City’s noise regulations
pursuant to Chapter 11 of this Code;

	(3)	There are no outdoor public telephones on the site;

	(4)	No signs are present on the property relating to its use as a shelter for
the homeless;

	(5)	No outdoor toilets are present on the site;

	(6)	All graffiti on the site is removed or painted over in the same color as
the surface to which it is applied within 24 hours of its occurrence;

	(7)	At least ten percent of the number of parking spaces otherwise required by
Section 12.21A4 are provided, and in no event are fewer than two spaces
provided; and

	(8)	All streets, alleys or sidewalks adjoining the property meet standard
street dimensions.

	(b)	Purposes:  Shelters should be separated from one another a sufficient
distance to avoid too many in one neighborhood.  Noise levels created on the
site should not increase the ambient noise level on adjoining or abutting
properties after completion of the project.  In order to avoid attracting
persons hostile to the occupants, the site should be designed to remain
anonymous.  Sufficient off-street parking should be provided so as to preclude
the need for utilization of on-street parking by the use allowed on the site. 
The proposed use should be designed so that loitering of individuals on or
adjacent to the site will not be generated by the use.  City streets should
meet City standards in order to ensure safe vehicular ingress and egress to the
site and to ensure that traffic does not exceed the current level of service. 
Public telephones should be located so as to avoid loitering.  Measures should
be taken to protect public health by preventing and eliminating graffiti when it
is found on the site.

	9.	The installation and maintenance of trailers for use as temporary
accommodations for homeless persons.  The term “temporary accommodations”
shall have the same meaning that it has in the definition of “shelter for the
homeless” in Section 12.03.  The height and area regulations contained in
other provisions of this chapter shall not apply to trailers permitted pursuant
to this subdivision.  Parking spaces otherwise required by this Code for the
trailers permitted pursuant to this subdivision shall not be required.

	(a)	Performance Standards:

	(1)	The installation and maintenance of no more than six trailers for use as
temporary accommodations for homeless persons is carried out and maintained by a
religious or philanthropic institution on the site of the institution; or by a
government unit, agency or authority on each individual property owned by the
government unit, agency or authority;

	(2)	There are no shelters for the homeless within 300 feet of the public
property;

	(3)	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,374, Eff. 8/3/00.)  There is a solid, decorative,
masonry or wrought iron wall or fence at least eight feet in height, or the
maximum height permitted by the zone, whichever is less.  The wall or fence
encircles the periphery of the property and does not extend into the required
front yard setback;

	(4)	The use is conducted in conformance with the City’s noise regulations
pursuant to Chapter 11 of this Code;

	(5)	No signs are present on the property relating to its use as a shelter for
the homeless;

	(6)	No outdoor toilets are present on the site;

	(7)	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  All graffiti on the site is
removed or painted over in the same color as the surface to which it is applied
within 24 hours of its occurrence;

	(8)	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  All streets, alleys or
sidewalks adjoining the property meet standard street dimensions; and

	(9)	(Added by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  The use shall not be within
500 ft. of a residential zone or use.

	(b)	Purposes:  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  Shelters should
be separated from one another a sufficient distance to avoid too many in one
neighborhood.  Noise levels created on the site should not increase the ambient
noise level on adjoining or abutting properties after completion of the
project.  In order to maintain appropriate quality of the neighborhood and
safety to occupants, the site should be designed to remain anonymous.  The
proposed use should be designed so that loitering of individuals on or adjacent
to the site will not be generated by the use.  City streets should meet City
standards in order to ensure safe vehicular ingress and egress to the site and
to ensure that traffic does not exceed the level of service.  Public telephones
should be located so as to avoid loitering.  Graffiti should be prevented and
eliminated when it is found on the site.  The proposed use should protect the
integrity of the surrounding neighborhood.

	B.	Alternative Compliance Procedures for Public Benefit Projects.

	1.	Applicability.  If a proposed public benefit project does not comply with
the performance standards delineated in Subsection A, the applicant may apply
for approval of alternative compliance measures pursuant to the following
procedures.

	2.	Application for Permit.  To apply for an alternative compliance approval
for a public benefit project listed in Subsection A, an applicant shall file an
application, on a form provided by the Department of City Planning, and include
all information required by the instructions on the application and the
guidelines adopted by the Director of Planning.  The application shall include
a description of how the proposed alternative compliance measures meet the goals
set forth in Subsection A.  The Director of Planning shall adopt guidelines
which shall be used to determine when an application is deemed complete.

	3.	Initial Decision.  The initial decision on an application shall be made by
the Director.

	4.	Public Hearing and Notice.  Upon receipt of a complete application, the
Director shall set the matter for public hearing, unless otherwise provided in
Subsection A, and shall conduct a hearing at which evidence shall be taken.

	The Department shall give notice to the applicant of the time, place and
purpose of the hearing by mailing a written notice no less than 24 days prior to
the date of the hearing.  No further notice is required in connection with
applications for public utilities and public service uses or structures, or
governmental enterprises, including libraries, museums, fire or police
stations.  In connection with all other applications, unless otherwise provided
in Subsection A, notice of the hearing shall also be given in all of the
following manners:

	(a)	Publication.  By at least one publication in a newspaper of general
circulation in the City, designated for that purpose by the City Council, no
less than 24 days prior to the date of hearing; and

	(b)	Written Notice.

	(1)	By mailing a written notice no less than 24 days prior to the date of the
hearing to the owner or owners of the property involved, and to the owners of
all property within and outside of the City that is within 500 feet of the
exterior boundaries of the property involved, using for the purpose of
notification, the last known names and addresses of owners as shown on the
records of the City Engineer or the records of the County Assessor.  Where all
property within the 500-foot radius is under the same ownership as the property
involved in the application, the owners of all property that adjoins that
ownership, or is separated from it only by a street, alley, public right-of-way
or other easement, shall also be notified as set forth above; and  (Amended by
Ord. No. 181,595, Eff. 4/10/11.)

	(2)	By mailing a written notice no less than 24 days prior to the date of the
hearing to residential, commercial and industrial occupants of all property
within 500 feet of the exterior boundaries of the property involved.  This
requirement can be met by mailing the notice to “occupant”; and

	(3)	If notice pursuant to this Subdivision 4(b)(1) and (2) will not result in
notice being given to at least 20 different owners of at least 20 different lots
other than the subject property, and at least 50 different persons, then the
500-foot radius for notification shall be increased in increments of 50 feet
until the required number of persons, and lots are encompassed within the
expanded area.  Notification shall then be given to all property owners and
occupants within the expanded area; and

	(c)	Site Posting.  By the applicant posting notice of the public hearing in a
conspicuous place on the property involved at least ten days prior to the date
of the public hearing.  The Director of Planning may adopt guidelines
consistent with this section for the posting of notices if the Director
determines that those guidelines are necessary and appropriate.

	5.	Findings for Approval.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  In
approving any public benefit project, the Director shall find that the proposed
project substantially meets the purposes of the performance standards set forth
in Subsection A.  The Director shall adopt written findings of fact supporting
the decision based upon evidence in the record, including staff
investigations.  All projects approved pursuant to this Section shall also be
subject to the regulations in Subsections L through Q of Section 12.24.

	6.	Conditions for Approval.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.) 
In approving any alternative compliance measures for a public benefit project
pursuant to this section, the Director shall impose conditions to secure
compliance with the applicable performance standards and purposes set forth in
Subsection A and with any alternative methods of compliance approved pursuant to
this procedure.

	7.	Time to Act.  The initial decision shall be made within 75 days of the date
the application is deemed complete, or within an extended period as mutually
agreed upon in writing by the applicant and the Director.  An initial decision
shall not be considered made until written findings are adopted in accordance
with Subdivision 5.  Upon making a decision, the Director shall transmit a copy
of the written findings and decision to the applicant, to all owners of
properties abutting, across the street or alley from, or having a common corner
with the subject property and to all persons who have filed a written request
for the notice with the Department of City Planning.

	8.	Failure to Act -Transfer of Jurisdiction.

	(a)	If the Director fails to act on an application within the time provided in
Subdivision 7, the applicant may file a request for a transfer of jurisdiction
to the City Planning Commission for decision.  The Director of Planning shall
prescribe the form and manner of filing requests for transfers of jurisdiction.

	(b)	When the City Planning Commission receives the applicant’s request for a
transfer of jurisdiction, the Director shall lose jurisdiction; provided,
however, that in a transfer of jurisdiction from the Director, the City Planning
Commission may remand the matter to the Director, who shall regain jurisdiction
for the time and purpose specified by the City Planning Commission.  Upon
receipt of a written request for withdrawal of the transfer of jurisdiction, the
City Planning Commission shall remand the matter to the Director.

	(c)	If no remand or written request for withdrawal of the transfer occurs, the
City Planning Commission shall consider the application following the same
procedures and subject to the same limitations as are applicable to the
Director, except that the City Planning Commission shall act within 45 days of
the transfer of jurisdiction.  The Department of City Planning, shall make
investigations and furnish any reports as the City Planning Commission may
request.

	9.	Appeals.

	(a)	Effective Date of Initial Decision.  An initial decision becomes final and
effective upon the close of the 15-day appeal period if no appeal is filed, or
as provided in this subdivision, if an appeal is filed.

	(b)	Appeals from Initial Decision.   An applicant or any other person
aggrieved by an initial decision of the Director may appeal the decision to the
City Planning Commission.  The appeal shall be filed within 15 days of the date
of mailing of the initial decision on forms provided by the Department.  The
appeal shall set forth specifically the points at issue, and the reasons for the
appeal.  Any appeal not filed within the 15-day period shall not be considered
by the City Planning Commission.  The filing of an appeal stays proceedings in
the matter until decision by the City Planning Commission.  Once an appeal is
filed, the Director shall transmit the appeal and the file to the City Planning
Commission, together with a report responding to the allegations made in the
appeal.  Notwithstanding the above, the City Council shall be the appellate
body instead of the City Planning Commission, if:

	(i)	the City Planning Commission was the initial decision-maker for an initial
decision taken prior to July 1, 2000; and

	(ii)	an appeal was filed, but no action on the appeal was taken prior to July
1, 2000.

	(c)	Appellate Decision – Hearing and Notice.  When considering an appeal
from the decision of the Director, the City Planning Commission shall make its
decision within 75 days after the expiration of the appeal period.  This period
may be extended by mutual written consent of the applicant and the City Planning
Commission.  Before acting on any appeal, the City Planning Commission shall
set the matter for hearing, giving the same notice as provided for the original
hearing.

	(d)	Time for Appellate Decision.  The City Planning Commission shall act
within 75 days after the expiration of the appeal period or within any
additional period as may be agreed upon by the applicant and the City Planning
Commission.  The failure of the City Planning Commission to adopt a resolution
within this time period shall be deemed a denial of the appeal.

	(e)	Appellate Decision.  The City Planning Commission may reverse or modify,
in whole or in part, any decision of the Director.

	(f)	Procedures and Effective Date of Appellate Decision.  If the City Planning
Commission makes a decision on an appeal pursuant to this subdivision, the
appellate decision shall be final and effective as provided in Charter Section
245.

	10.	(Deleted by Ord. No. 182,106, Eff. 5/20/12.)

	11.	Fee Deferral for Density Increase for Affordable Housing Pursuant to
Section 14.00 A.2.  The payment of filing fees may be deferred pursuant to the
provisions of Sections 19.01 O. and 19.05 A.1. and 5.

	12.	Exception to Time Limits.  Where alternative compliance measures have been
approved for a governmental enterprise use, no time limit to utilize the
privilege shall apply provided that all of the following conditions are met:

	(a)	The property involved is acquired or legal proceeding for its acquisition
is commenced within one year of the effective date of the approval.

	(b)	A sign is immediately placed on the property indicating its ownership and
the purpose to which it is to be developed, as soon as legally possible after
the effective date of the permit.  This sign shall have a surface area of at
least 20 square feet.

	(c)	The sign is maintained on the property in good condition until the
conditional use privileges are utilized.

	13.	Exceptions to Notice and Hearing Requirements in Subdivision 4.

	(a)	Shelter for the Homeless Pursuant to Subsection A.8.  An application for
approval of an alternative compliance measure for a shelter for the homeless as
defined in Section 12.03 shall be set for public hearing, and notice shall be
given in the same manner as provided for in Section 12.27 C.  However, in the
M1, M2, M3 Zones, the Director may waive the public hearing if the applicant
submits with the application the written approval of all of the owners of all
properties abutting, across the street or alley from or having a common corner
with the subject property.

	(b)	Temporary Accommodations for Homeless Persons Pursuant to Subsection A.9. 
An application for approval of an alternative compliance measure  for temporary
accommodations for homeless persons as defined in Section 12.03 need not be set
for public hearing.  The application shall be submitted on a form and shall be
accompanied by information as required by the Director.  There shall be no
filing fee and no appeal fee in connection with an application.

	Before approving an application pursuant to this section, the Director shall
notify all adjacent property owners of the pendency of the application and shall
provide them an opportunity to present their comments.  After making a decision
pursuant to this subdivision, the Director shall notify, in writing, the
applicant and owners of all properties located within 300 feet of the subject
property, of his or her decision.

	14.	Revocation.  (Added by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  The revocation
procedure that applies to conditional uses and other similar quasi-judicial
approvals in Section 12.24Z shall also apply to revocations of public benefits
that were granted pursuant to the alternative compliance procedures in this
section.
