                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEFINITIONS. (§ 14.4.2)

  DEFINITIONS.	The following terms shall apply to this article.  Other terms
used in this article shall have the meanings set forth in Section 12.03 of this
Code, if defined in that section. 	Bisecting Line.  A line that equally
divides the angle created by the projection of intersecting lot lines of a lot
adjoining the street of a corner lot as illustrated in Diagram C of this
article.	Building Frontage.  The projection of the building walls upon the
street used for street frontage.	Digital Display.  A sign face, building face,
and/or any building or structural component that displays still images,
scrolling images, moving images, or flashing images, including video and
animation, through the use of grid lights, cathode ray projections, light
emitting diode displays, plasma screens, liquid crystal displays, fiber optics,
or other electronic media or technology that is either independent of or
attached to, integrated into, or projected onto a building or structural
component, and that may be changed remotely through electronic means.  (Added
by Ord. No. 180,841, Eff. 8/14/09.)	Face of Building.  The general outer
surface, not including cornices, bay windows or architectural projections, of
any exterior wall of a building.	Freeway.  A highway in respect to which the
owners or those in possession of abutting lands have no right or easement of
access to or from their abutting lands or in respect to which the owners have
only limited or restricted right or easement of access, and which is declared to
be a freeway, in compliance with the Streets and Highways Code of the State of
California.	Identification Sign.  A wall sign that is limited to a company
logo, generic type of business, or the name of a business or
building.	Illuminated Architectural Canopy Sign.  An enclosed illuminated
structure that is attached to the wall of a building with the face of the sign
approximately parallel to the wall and with the message integrated into its
surface.	Inflatable Device.  A sign that is a cold air inflated object, which
may be of various shapes, made of flexible fabric, resting on the ground or
structure and equipped with a portable blower motor that provides a constant
flow of air into the device.  Inflatable devices are restrained, attached, or
held in place by a cord, rope, cable or similar method.  The term inflatable
device shall not include any object that contains helium, hot air or a
lighter-than-air substance.	Information Sign.  A sign that is limited to a
message giving directions, instructions, menus, selections or address
numerals.	Main Traveled Roadway of a Freeway.  The portion of a freeway,
including interchange roadways connecting one freeway with another, which is
designed for the movement of large volumes of vehicular traffic, efficiently and
safely at high speed, but not including service roadways, landscape areas, or
ingress or egress ramps connecting the freeway with other streets.	Monument
Sign.  A sign that is erected directly upon the existing or artificially
created grade, or that is raised no more than 12 inches from the existing or
artificially created grade to the bottom of the sign, and that has a horizontal
dimension equal to or greater than its vertical dimension.	Mural Sign.  A sign
that is painted on or applied to and made integral with a wall, the written
message of which does not exceed three percent of the total area of the
sign. 	Off-Site Sign.  A sign that displays any message directing attention to
a business, product, service, profession, commodity, activity, event, person,
institution or any other commercial message, which is generally conducted, sold,
manufactured, produced, offered or occurs elsewhere than on the premises where
the sign is located.	Off-Site Sign Structure.  A structure of any kind or
character, erected, used or maintained for an off-site sign or signs, upon which
any poster, bill, printing, painting, projected image or other advertisement may
be placed.	On-Site Sign.  A sign that is other than an off-site
sign.	Perpendicular Line.  A straight line between the point on a sign face
that is closest to the street and the point where the line intersects the street
lot line at a 90 degree angle, as illustrated in Diagram C of this article.	Pole
Sign.  A freestanding sign that is erected or affixed to one or more poles or
posts and that does not meet the requirements of a monument sign.	Projecting
Sign.  A sign, other than a wall sign, that is attached to a building and
projects outward from the building with one or more sign faces approximately
perpendicular to the face of the building.	Projection.  The distance by which a
sign extends beyond the building line.	Roof  Sign.  A sign erected upon a roof
of a building.	Sign.  Any whole or part of a display board, wall, screen or
object, used to announce, declare, demonstrate, display or otherwise present a
message and attract the attention of the public.	Sign Area.  An area
circumscribed by the smallest geometric shape created with a maximum of eight
straight lines, which will enclose all words, letters, figures, symbols, designs
and pictures, together with all framing, background material, colored or
illuminated areas and attention-attracting devices, forming an integral part of
an individual message except that:	1.	Wall signs having no discernible boundary
shall have the areas between letters, words intended to be read together and any
device intended to draw attention to the sign message included in any
computation of surface area.	2.	For spherical, cylindrical or other
three-dimensional signs the area of the sign shall be computed from the smallest
two-dimensional geometrical shape or shapes, which will best approximate the
greatest actual surface area visible from any one direction.	3.	Sign support
structures are excluded if neutral in color.	4.	“Time and Temperature” sign
copy is excluded from computation of sign area if the copy is less than 56
square feet in area.	Sign Face.  The surface upon which the sign message is
placed.	Street Frontage.  The length of a line separating a lot from one
street.	Supergraphic Sign.  A sign, consisting of an image projected onto a
wall or printed on vinyl, mesh or other material with or without written text,
supported and attached to a wall by an adhesive and/or by using stranded cable
and eye-bolts and/or other materials or methods, and which does not comply with
the following provisions of this Code:  Sections 14.4.10; 14.4.16, 14.4.17;
14.4.18; and/or 14.4.20.	Temporary Construction Wall.  A wooden fence or wooden
barrier that provides protection for pedestrians and is erected and maintained
on the perimeter of a construction or demolition site pursuant to Section 3303
of the California Building Code (CBC).  	Temporary Sign.  Any sign that is to
be maintained for a limited duration, not to exceed 30 days, including paper
signs and other signs that are not permanently affixed to the ground or
building.	Wall Sign.  Any sign attached to, painted on or erected against the
wall of a building or structure, with the exposed face of the sign in a plane
approximately parallel to the plane of the wall.	Window Sign.  Any sign, except
for a supergraphic sign, that is attached to, affixed to, leaning against, or
otherwise placed within six feet of a window or door in a manner so that the
sign is visible from outside the building.
