                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

POLE SIGNS. (§ 14.4.12)

  POLE SIGNS.	A.	Permitted.  Pole signs shall not be permitted on that portion
of a lot having less than 50 feet of street frontage.  Lots having a street
frontage of at least 50 feet may have a pole sign for each 200 feet or fraction
of that area of street frontage, if the street frontage does not contain an
existing pole sign or projecting sign.	B.	Area.	1.	Sign area visible to the same
direction of traffic shall not exceed two square feet for each foot of street
frontage, plus one square foot for each foot of building frontage.	2.	The
maximum area of any one pole sign shall not exceed 400 square feet.	3.	Any pole
sign that is located at the street corner of a corner lot may use the greater
street frontage for area limitations.	4.	The combined sign area of pole signs,
projecting signs, monument signs, illuminated architectural canopy signs, wall
signs, roof signs and window signs shall not exceed four square feet for each
foot of street frontage.	C.	Height.  Height shall be measured from the nearest
sidewalk or edge of roadway grade to the top of the sign.  The overall height
limitation shall be determined by street frontage as follows:	1.	25 feet for
lots having 50 feet of street frontage; 	2.	35 feet for lots having more than
50 feet and less than 100 feet of street frontage; and	3.	42 feet for lots
having at least 100 feet of street frontage.	Any pole sign that is located at
the street corner of a corner lot may use the greater street frontage for
determining height limitations.  In no event shall a sign exceed the height
specified for the height district in which the sign is
located.	D.	Location.	1.	Pole signs shall be located at least ten feet from
interior lot lines; however, on corner lots and flag lots, pole signs may be
located five feet from interior lot lines.	2.	A pole sign shall be located at
least 15 feet from any other pole sign, projecting sign or monument
sign.	3.	Pole signs shall be located so as not to interfere or present a hazard
to pedestrian or vehicular traffic.	4.	Where the lower part of a pole sign is
less than eight feet above sidewalk grade or the edge of roadway grade nearest
the sign, the sign shall extend to grade or shall be installed in a planter that
extends beyond the edges of the sign and sign support structure and that is a
minimum of 18 inches in height.	E.	Projections.  A pole sign may project over a
building line, but shall not extend beyond the limits shown in Diagram A of this
article.  Sign projections shall fall within an area that is perpendicular to
the building line and has a width of three feet as measured parallel to the
building line.	F.	Other Requirements.  A maximum of two poles shall be
permitted for any pole sign.  The maximum cross-sectional dimension of a pole
shall not exceed ten percent of the overall height of the sign.
