                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

FREEWAY EXPOSURE. (§ 14.4.6)

  FREEWAY EXPOSURE.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 180,841, Eff. 8/14/09.)	A.	New Signs.  No person shall
erect, construct, install, paint, maintain, and no building or electrical permit
shall be issued for, any sign or sign support structure within 2,000 feet of a
freeway unless the Department of Building and Safety has first determined that
the sign will not be viewed primarily from a main traveled roadway of a freeway
or an on-ramp/off-ramp.  However, at the termination of an off-ramp, any wall
sign located along the front line may be viewed primarily from the off-ramp.	The
phrase “viewed primarily from” shall mean that the message may be seen with
reasonable clarity for a greater distance by a person traveling on the main
traveled roadway of a freeway or on-ramp/off-ramp than by a person traveling on
the street adjacent to the sign.	B.	Exemption.  The wall signs specified in
Subdivisions 1. and 2. below are exempt from the limitation of Subsection A.
above.  These signs shall not have moving parts or any arrangement of lights
that create the illusion of movement.	1.	Identification signs identifying the
building where the sign is located, providing the area of the sign is not more
than 50 square feet or is not larger than five percent of the area of the side
of the building, which faces primarily to the freeway, whichever is greater;
and	2.	Wall signs on which the advertising is limited to the name of any person,
firm or corporation occupying the building, or the type of business, services
rendered, or the name of any product manufactured or sold on the premises.  The
total area of all wall signs on a building permitted in this subdivision shall
not exceed 100 square feet.  Any one sign shall not exceed 50 square feet in
area.	C.	Existing Signs.  Within three years of the opening of a freeway to
public travel, all signs that existed prior to the opening of the freeway and
that are in conflict with the provisions of this section and/or Section 14.4.5
of this Code shall be removed, or shall be rearranged or relocated so as to
eliminate any conflict with the provisions of this section and/or Section 14.4.5
of this Code.	The Department of Building and Safety and the Department of
Transportation shall determine whether or not the sign or sign support structure
is in conflict with the provisions of this section and/or Section 14.4.5 of this
Code.  If it is determined that any sign or sign support structure is in
conflict with any of the provisions of this section and/or Section 14.4.5 of
this Code, then the permittee and/or other responsible person shall be advised
and shall remove, rearrange or relocate the sign or sign support structure
within this three-year period.	D.	Operative Date.  This section shall become
operative only to the extent that this section is deemed constitutional upon the
reversal of the trial court decision in the case of World Wide Rush, LLC v. City
of Los Angeles, United States District Court Case No. CV 07-238 ABC.
