                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

OFF-SITE SIGNS. (§ 14.4.18)

  OFF-SITE SIGNS.	A.	Area.  The sign area of a single face shall not exceed
800 square feet.	B.	Height.	1.	The height to the top of the off-site sign shall
be limited to a maximum of 42 feet above the sidewalk grade or edge of roadway
grade nearest the sign, except that a sign that is more than 80 percent above a
roof of a building may extend to the top of the sign a maximum of 30 feet above
the surface of the roof under the sign.	2.	In no event shall the height to the
top of the off-site sign exceed a height greater than that height specified for
the height district in which the sign is located, or a height of 60 feet above
the sidewalk grade or edge of roadway grade nearest the sign, whichever is more
restrictive.	3.	The bottom of the off-site sign shall be at least eight feet
above the sidewalk grade or edge of roadway grade nearest the
sign.	C.	Location.	1.	No portion of an off-site sign with a sign area greater
than 80 square feet shall be placed within 200 feet of a residentially zoned
lot, which is located on the same side of the same street as the lot on which
the sign is placed.  However, where a lot has two or more street frontages, a
sign may be located on that street frontage, which is not on the same street as
the residentially zoned lot; provided the sign and sign support structure are
placed in that half of the lot that is the farthest from the street frontage on
which the residentially zoned lot is located.	2.	No portion of an off-site sign
or sign support structure shall be located in that half of a lot located
farthest from the street frontage when residentially zoned property is located
to the rear of that street frontage.	3.	Off-site signs are not permitted along
that portion of a lot having a street frontage of less than 50 feet.	4.	No more
than four off-site signs shall be located at the intersection of two or more
streets when the off-site signs are located within 150 feet of the intersection
of two street frontages.	5.	An off-site sign face shall not be located within
one foot of an interior lot line.
 
	D.	Frontage Determination on Lots with Lot Lines Adjoining More Than One
Street.	1.	An off-site sign shall be considered to be on a single street for
purposes of Sections 14.4.18 A. and 14.4.18 D. of this Code if the sign and its
support structure are located entirely on the side of the bisecting line closest
to that street and the sign face is placed at the same angle as the
perpendicular line or at an angle not to exceed 20 degrees from either side of
the perpendicular line as shown on Diagram C of this article.	2.	An off-site
sign located on a through lot shall be located on a single street if the sign
and its support structure are located entirely on that half of the lot closest
to the lot line adjoining that street.	Any off-site sign not in conformance with
either Subdivision 1. or 2. above shall be considered to be located on more than
one street frontage.	E.	Spacing.	1.	An off-site sign, which is either
single-faced or parallel double-faced, shall be spaced as specified in Table No.
B of this article from any other existing or previously permitted off-site sign,
which is single-faced or parallel double-faced.	2.	For any double-faced off-site
sign, the spacing requirements shall be based on the area of the largest sign
face.	3.	For double-faced off-site signs whose faces are not parallel, the
spacing between any proposed, permitted or existing off-site sign shall be
determined by the following formula:
  
    
      
        D
      
      
        =
      
      
        S
      
      
        
      
      
        1+
      
      
        (B – 5)
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        90
      
    
  
	WHERE:D=	required spacing between signs, in feet.S=	sign spacing determined
from Table No. B below in feet.B=	widest edge separation of sign faces in
feet.	4.	Spacing shall be measured between off-site signs that are located on
the same side of the same street.  Spacing shall be measured from a line that
is perpendicular to the building line and that passes through a point on the
building line that is closest to the nearest sign face edge.  Spacing shall be
measured along the center line of the street.	F.	Double-faced 	1.	Off-site signs
may be either single or double-faced.	2.	For double-faced off-site signs whose
faces are parallel, the distance between sign faces shall not exceed six
feet. 	3.	For double-faced off-site signs whose faces are not parallel, the
distance between sign faces at their widest point shall not exceed 35 feet. 
The separation of sign faces at their closest point shall not exceed six feet. 
In no event shall the angle between sign faces exceed 37
degrees.	G.	Projection.  Off-site signs shall not project beyond the building
line.	H.	Covering.  The backs of off-site signs exposed to public view shall be
covered with a finished surface or material and shall be properly
maintained.	I.	Other Requirements.	1.	A maximum of two poles shall be permitted
for any off-site sign.  The maximum cross-sectional dimension of a pole shall
not exceed ten percent of the overall height of the sign.	2.	Off-site sign
supports shall be structurally independent of a building.  	3.	Sign support
structures must be located directly under the sign face as viewed from the front
of the sign.  The maximum horizontal distance between the center of the sign
support structure and the sign face shall not exceed ten feet.
