                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

GENERAL PROVISIONS. (§ 14.4.4)

  GENERAL PROVISIONS.	A.	Ideological and Political Signs.  No provision of
this article shall prohibit an ideological, political or other noncommercial
message on a sign otherwise permitted by this article. 	B.	Prohibited Signs. 
Signs are prohibited if they: 	1.	Contain obscene matters, as defined in
Section 311 of the Penal Code of the State of California.	2.	Contain or consist
of posters, pennants, banners, ribbons, streamers or spinners, except as
permitted by Sections 14.4.16 and 14.4.17 of this Code. 	3.	Contain flashing,
mechanical and strobe lights in conflict with the provisions of Sections 80.08.4
and 93.0107 of this Code.	4.	Are revolving and where all or any portion rotate
at greater than six revolutions per minute.	5.	Are tacked, pasted or otherwise
temporarily affixed on the walls of buildings, barns, sheds, trees, poles, posts
or fences, except as permitted by Sections 14.4.16 and 14.4.17 of this Code.
 	6.	Are affixed to any vehicle or trailer on private property if the vehicle
or trailer is not intended to be otherwise used in the business and the sole
purpose of attaching the sign to the vehicle or trailer is to attract people to
a place of business.	7.	Emit audible sounds, odor or visible matter.	8.	Use
human beings, live animals, animated figures, motion pictures or slide
projectors in connection with any sign.	9.	(Amended by Ord. No. 180,841, Eff.
8/14/09.)  Are supergraphic signs.	EXCEPTIONS:  This prohibition shall not
apply to supergraphic signs that are specifically permitted pursuant to a
legally adopted specific plan, supplemental use district or an approved
development agreement.  This exception shall become operative only to the
extent that Subdivision 9. is deemed constitutional upon the reversal of the
trial court decision in the case of World Wide Rush, LLC v. City of Los Angeles,
United States District Court Case No. CV 07-238 ABC.	In addition,
notwithstanding the provisions of Section 12.26 A.3. of this Code, this
prohibition shall not apply to any building permit issued prior to the effective
date of this ordinance if the Department of Building and Safety determines that
both substantial liabilities have been incurred, and substantial work has been
performed on site, in accordance with the terms of that permit pursuant to
Section 91.106.4.3.1 of this Code.	10.	Are mural signs, except when mural signs
are specifically permitted pursuant to a legally adopted specific plan,
supplemental use district or an approved development agreement.	11.	(Amended by
Ord. No. 180,841, Eff. 8/14/09.)  Are off-site signs, including off-site
digital displays, except when off-site signs are specifically permitted pursuant
to a relocation agreement entered into pursuant to California Business and
Professions Code Section 5412.  This prohibition shall also apply to
alterations, enlargements or conversions to digital displays of legally existing
off-site signs, except for alterations that conform to the provisions of Section
91.6216 and all other requirements of this Code.	EXCEPTIONS:  This prohibition
shall not apply to off-site signs, including off-site digital displays, that are
specifically permitted pursuant to a legally adopted specific plan, supplemental
use district or an approved development agreement.  This exception shall become
operative only to the extent that Subdivision 11. is deemed constitutional upon
the reversal of the trial court decision in the case of World Wide Rush, LLC v.
City of Los Angeles, United States District Court Case No. CV 07-238 ABC.	In
addition, notwithstanding the provisions of Section 12.26 A.3. of this Code,
this prohibition shall not apply to any building permit issued prior to the
effective date of this ordinance if the Department of Building and Safety
determines that both substantial liabilities have been incurred, and substantial
work has been performed on site, in accordance with the terms of that permit
pursuant to Section 91.106.4.3.1 of this Code.	12.	Are inflatable devices,
except when inflatable devices are specifically permitted pursuant to a legally
adopted specific plan, supplemental use district or an approved development
agreement.	C.	Prohibited Locations.	1.	No sign or sign support structure shall
project into any public alley, except that a sign or sign support structure
above a height of 14 feet may project no more than six inches into a public
alley.	2.	No sign or sign support structure shall be located less than six feet
horizontally or 12 feet vertically from overhead electrical conductors, which
are energized in excess of 750 volts.  The term “overhead electrical
conductors” as used here shall mean any electrical conductor, either bare or
insulated, installed above ground, except electrical conductors that are
enclosed in iron pipe or other material covering of equal strength.  Arcs of
six foot radius may be used to define corners of prohibition area.	3.	No sign or
sign support structure shall be erected in a visibility triangle as defined by
Sections 12.21 C.7. and 62.200 of this Code.	4.	No sign or sign support
structure shall be located within two feet of the curb or edge of any
roadway.	D.	Maintenance.	1.	Appearance.  Every sign shall be maintained in a
clean, safe and good working condition, including the replacement of defective
parts, defaced or broken faces, lighting and other acts required for the
maintenance of the sign.  The display surfaces shall be kept neatly painted or
posted at all times.	2.	Debris Removal.  The base of any sign erected on the
ground shall be kept clear of weeds, rubbish or other combustible material at
all times.	3.	Abandoned Signage.  Ninety days after the cessation of a business
activity, service or product, the related signs shall be removed, or the face of
the signs shall be removed and replaced with blank panels or shall be painted
out.	E.	Sign Illumination Limitations.  No sign shall be arranged and
illuminated in a manner that will produce a light intensity of greater than
three foot candles above ambient lighting, as measured at the property line of
the nearest residentially zoned property.	F.	Combination Signs.  A sign, which
is subject to more than one classification, shall meet the requirements for the
classification to which each portion is subject.	G.	Flag Lots.  For purposes of
this article, flag lots containing less than 50 feet of street frontage shall be
allotted 50 feet of street frontage for the purpose of determining the type of
sign permitted and for the allowable sign area.	H.	Street Address Numbers.  No
sign shall be maintained on any property unless the street address of the
property is maintained in accordance with the provisions of Section 63.113 of
this Code. 	I.	Sign Permit Priority Status.	1.	To maintain location, area,
frontage, or spacing status, signs must be installed within six months of
issuance of a building permit or prior to expiration of any permit extension
granted by the Department of Building and Safety.	2.	Where more than one permit
has been issued and the effect of those permits when considered together results
in a violation of this article, all permits except the permit with the earlier
date and time of issuance shall be invalid.	J.	Relief.  Notwithstanding the
provisions of Sections 12.24, 12.27, 12.28 or any other section of this Code to
the contrary, no relief from the provisions of Subsection B.9. or 11. of this
section shall be granted.  (Added by Ord. No. 180,841, Eff. 8/14/09.)
