                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ILLUMINATED ARCHITECTURAL CANOPY SIGNS. (§ 14.4.11)

  ILLUMINATED ARCHITECTURAL CANOPY SIGNS.	A.	Area.	1.	The area of illuminated
architectural canopy signs shall not exceed two square feet for each foot of
street frontage, plus one square foot for each foot of building frontage.	2.	In
applying sign area limits, only the area occupied by the message of the
illuminated architectural canopy signs will be used.	3.	The combined sign area
of illuminated architectural canopy signs, roof signs and wall signs facing the
same direction shall not exceed two square feet for each foot of street
frontage, plus one square foot for each foot of building frontage.	4.	The
combined sign area of illuminated architectural canopy signs, projecting signs,
monument signs, wall signs, pole signs, roof signs and window signs shall not
exceed four square feet for each foot of street frontage.	B.	Height.  An
illuminated architectural canopy sign shall not extend above the top of the wall
of a building.	C.	Clearance.  Illuminated architectural canopy signs shall have
a minimum clearance of eight feet above the sidewalk grade or edge of roadway
grade nearest the sign and shall not be located closer than two feet from the
curb of any roadway.	D.	Emergency Personnel Access.  Illuminated architectural
canopy signs shall not occupy a four-foot distance along the exterior wall at
one corner of the building’s street frontage and an additional four-foot
distance along every 50 feet of the building frontage.	E.	Illumination.  The
sign shall be internally illuminated so as to illuminate the canopy and the
exterior wall below.  The illuminated architectural canopy sign shall bear the
electric sign label of an approved testing agency with a re-inspection
service.	F.	Projections.  Illuminated architectural canopy signs may project
over a building line.  However, in no event may an illuminated architectural
canopy sign project more than three feet from the face of the building.
