                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PROJECTING SIGNS. (§ 14.4.9)

  PROJECTING SIGNS.	A.	Permitted.  Projecting signs shall not be permitted on
that portion of a lot having less than 50 feet of street frontage.  Lots having
a street frontage of at least 50 feet may have a projecting sign for each 200
feet or fraction of that area of street frontage, if the street frontage does
not contain an existing projecting sign or a pole sign.	B.	Area.	1.	The sign
area of projecting signs visible to the same direction of traffic shall not
exceed 25 square feet plus 1.5 square feet for each foot of street frontage up
to a maximum sign area of 300 square feet.  Any projecting sign located at the
street corner of a corner lot may use the greater street frontage in computing
area limitations.	2.	The combined sign area of projecting signs, wall signs,
monument signs, illuminated architectural canopy signs, pole signs, roof signs
and window signs shall not exceed four square feet for each foot of street
frontage.	C.	Height.  A projecting sign shall not be located lower than eight
feet above sidewalk grade or edge of roadway grade nearest the sign and shall
not extend above the top of the wall.	D.	Location.	1.	A projecting sign shall be
located at least 7.5 feet from any interior lot line.	2.	A projecting sign shall
be located at least 15 feet from any other projecting sign, monument sign or
pole sign.	3.	The plane of the sign face of a projecting sign shall be within 15
degrees of being perpendicular to the face of the building, except at the corner
of the building.	E.	Projections.  A projecting sign may project over the
building line, but shall not extend beyond the limits shown in Diagram A of this
article.  Sign projections shall fall within an area that is perpendicular to
the building line and has a width of three feet as measured parallel with the
building line.  In no event, may a projecting sign project more than eight feet
from the face of a building.	EXCEPTION:  For projecting signs located above a
16-foot height and on a lot having a street frontage greater than 50 feet,
projections over the building line may vary linearly from five feet at 50 feet
to eight feet at 100 feet of street frontage.
