                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

TEMPORARY SIGNS ON TEMPORARY CONSTRUCTION WALLS. (§ 14.4.17)

  TEMPORARY SIGNS ON TEMPORARY CONSTRUCTION WALLS.	A.	Permit Required.  A
building permit shall be required for a temporary sign on a temporary
construction wall.  Temporary signs on temporary construction walls shall
comply with the construction requirements of Section 14.4.16 E.	For purposes of
this section, the term “applicant” shall mean the owner of the sign company
or, if there is no sign company, the owner of the property.	B.	Area. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 14.4.16 B.1. and 2. of this Code,
signs placed on temporary construction walls, and/or solid wood fences
surrounding vacant lots pursuant to the terms of this section shall not extend
above the top of the wall or fence and shall comply with the following:	1.	The
combined sign area of temporary signs shall not exceed eight square feet for
each foot of street frontage.	2.	Individual signs shall not exceed a sign area
of 250 square feet.	3.	Signs may be grouped to form a maximum sign area of 250
square feet.	4.	Signs or groups of signs having an area of 250 square feet shall
be separated from any other sign on the temporary construction walls and/or
solid wood fences surrounding vacant lots by at least ten feet measured
horizontally.	C.	Time Limit.  Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 14.4.16
C.1. and 2. of this Code, signs placed on temporary construction walls, and/or
solid wood fences surrounding vacant lots pursuant to the terms of this section
shall be allowed to remain for as long as the building permits associated with
the construction site remain in effect or for a period of two years, whichever
is less.  Building permits for signs on solid wood fences surrounding vacant
lots, which are not construction sites, shall be issued for a time period not to
exceed one year.  The Department of Building and Safety shall grant a new
building permit for a period equal to the original building permit term upon the
receipt of (i) an application for a new building permit, (ii) the payment of the
building permit fee and (iii) a written statement from the Director of the
Office of Community Beautification consenting to the new building
permit.	D.	Height.  Signs may only be placed to a maximum height of eight
feet.	E.	Location.  Temporary signs placed on the exterior surfaces of any
temporary construction walls, and/or solid wood fences surrounding vacant lots
are limited to lots located in a commercial or industrial zone.	F.	Special
Requirements for Signs on Temporary Construction Walls, and/or Solid Wood Fences
Surrounding Vacant Lots.	1.	Review by the Office of Community Beautification. 
At any time after the issuance of a building permit under this section and upon
request of the Council district office of the Council district in which the site
or lot is located, the Office of Community Beautification of the Department of
Public Works (Office of Community Beautification) shall investigate an area
consisting of a 500-foot radius around the permitted site or lot to determine
whether there exists a public nuisance due to the presence of graffiti and/or
posters/handbills on light poles, utility poles, bus stops, and any other
illegal postings on public property.	If the Office of Community Beautification
cannot establish that the area constitutes a public nuisance because of the
presence of graffiti, posters/handbills and any other illegal postings on public
property within a 500-foot radius around the permitted site or lot, then the
Office of Community Beautification shall expand the radius around the site or
lot in 250-foot increments, up to a maximum radius of 1500 feet.  If the Office
of Community Beautification finds the existence of a public nuisance on public
property within the expanded radius area beyond the original 500-foot radius,
then it shall require the applicant to abate the public nuisance in the expanded
radius area in accordance with Subdivision 3., below.	2.	Notification of
Locations for Placement of Signs.  Within ten days after the issuance of the
building permit, the applicant shall provide written notification to the Office
of Community Beautification and the Council district office of the Council
district in which the construction site or vacant lot is located.  The
notification shall contain the name and address of the applicant and the
property address where the signs will be placed.  The notification to the
Office of Community Beautification shall include a copy of the applicant’s
contract with the property owner to post signs at the specified
location.	3.	Nuisance Abatement.  It shall be the applicant’s responsibility
to clean and maintain free from graffiti public property and rights-of-way
within an area consisting of a 500-foot radius or any expanded radius required
by the Office of Community Beautification around the permitted site or lot. 
The applicant shall patrol the abatement area every 24 hours to search for
graffiti and remove any graffiti within 24 hours of its discovery.  The removal
of graffiti shall include, but not be limited to, spray paint on walls, poles,
and fences on public property.  In addition, the applicant shall also be
responsible for removing any posters/handbills on light poles, utility poles,
bus stops, and any other illegal postings on public property.  At the time of
graffiti removal, the applicant shall also remove any trash, debris or rubbish
from the public sidewalks within the abatement area around the permitted site. 
The Office of Community Beautification shall enforce the provisions of this
subsection.	4.	Permit Revocation.  Any building permit issued pursuant to this
section may be revoked by the Department of Building and Safety for any of the
following reasons, provided a written and signed notification of the
applicant’s failure to comply with Paragraphs (a), (d), (e) or (f) of this
subsection is sent to the Department of Building and Safety by the Director of
the Office of Community Beautification:	(a)	Failure by the applicant to maintain
the temporary construction wall and/or solid wood fence surrounding a vacant lot
free from graffiti.	(b)	Failure by the applicant to comply with the terms of the
permit.	(c)	Failure by the applicant to maintain the bond required in Subsection
A. of this section.	(d)	Failure by the applicant to eradicate graffiti within a
500-foot radius or any expanded radius required by the Office of Community
Beautification of the temporary construction wall, and/or solid wood fence
surrounding a vacant lot within 24 hours of receiving notification of the
presence of graffiti from the Office of Community Beautification or the Council
staff in the Council district in which the construction site or vacant lot is
located.	(e)	Failure by the applicant to remove posters/handbills placed on
light poles, utility poles, bus stops and any other illegal postings on public
property within a 500-foot radius or any expanded radius required by the Office
of Community Beautification of the temporary construction wall, and/or solid
wood fence surrounding a vacant lot, within 24 hours of receiving notification
of the presence of posters/handbills or other illegal postings from the Office
of Community Beautification or the Council staff in the Council district in
which the construction site or vacant lot is located.	(f)	Failure by the
applicant, at the time of graffiti removal, to remove trash, debris or rubbish
from the public sidewalks within the abatement area around the permitted
site.	5.	Removal of Signs.  If the Department of Building and Safety revokes
the building permit allowing signs on temporary construction walls, and/or solid
wood fences surrounding vacant lots, then any signs placed on the temporary
construction walls and/or solid wood fences surrounding vacant lots shall be
removed by the applicant within 72 hours after receipt of written
notification.	6.	Public Nuisance.  Any signs remaining on temporary
construction walls, and/or solid wood fences surrounding vacant lots after the
building permit is revoked are deemed to be a public nuisance that can be abated
by utilizing the procedure contained in Section 91.8904, et seq., of the
Code.	7.	Office of Community Beautification.  The Office of Community
Beautification is hereby designated the authorized representative of the City
for the purpose of enforcing and implementing the provisions of Sections
91.8904.1.2 and 91.8307 of this Code to remove the nuisances described in this
section.
