                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

WALL SIGNS. (§ 14.4.10)

  WALL SIGNS.	A.	Area.	1.	The total sign area of wall signs facing a street
shall not exceed two square feet for each foot of street frontage, plus one
square foot for each foot of building frontage for a single-story
building.	2.	For buildings more than one story in height, the combined wall sign
area shall not exceed that permitted for a single story by more than ten percent
for each additional story.  In no event, shall the combined wall sign area
exceed by 50 percent that area permitted for a single-story building.	3.	For
wall signs that are made up of individual letters that use the wall of the
building as background, the allowable sign area may be increased by 20 percent,
provided there is no change in color between the background and the surrounding
wall area.	4.	The combined sign area of illuminated architectural canopy signs,
roof signs and wall signs facing the same direction shall not exceed two square
feet for each foot of street frontage, plus one square foot for each foot of
building frontage.	5.	The combined sign area of wall signs, projecting signs,
monument signs, illuminated architectural canopy signs, pole signs, roof signs
and window signs shall not exceed four square feet for each foot of street
frontage.	B.	Height.  A wall sign shall not extend above the top of the wall of
the building.	EXCEPTION:  Where there is less than three feet between the top
of the wall and the top of a window, the wall sign may extend above the top of
the wall by a maximum of three feet.	C.	Location.	1.	No wall sign shall be
located on a wall that faces and is within five feet of an interior lot
line.	2.	Wall signs installed on a wall that faces the rear lot line and that is
located within 30 feet of property that is zoned R-3 or more restrictive shall
not be illuminated.	D.	Projection.	1.	No wall sign shall have a projection over
any public street, other public property or building line greater than that
permitted in Diagram A of this article. 	2.	No wall sign shall project more
than 24 inches from the face of the building.  If any message is placed on the
edge of a wall sign, then that portion of the wall sign shall be regulated as a
projecting sign.	E.	High Rise Signs.  Any wall signs located over 100 feet
above grade shall be used as identification signs only.  Identification signs
shall comprise no more than 80 percent of the width of that portion of the
building where the signs are attached.  Notwithstanding the provisions of
Subsection A. above, the area of these signs may constitute up to five percent
of the area of the wall where the signs are attached and may be in addition to
the area permitted in Subsection A. above.	F.	Parking Lots.  Where a parking
lot exists between a wall sign and the street, and there is a wall between the
parking lot and the street, a portion of the total sign area permitted by this
section may be used on the wall located between the parking lot and the street
so long as the sign does not project beyond the lot line.  The sign shall be
restricted to that portion of the wall between two feet six inches and three
feet six inches in height above the finished grade at the base of the wall
generally facing the street.
