                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

APPROVAL OF TRANSFERS – AUTHORITY AND PROCEDURES FOR PROJECTS INVOLVING
TRANSFERS OF 50,000 SQUARE FEET OR GREATER. (§ 14.5.6)

  APPROVAL OF TRANSFERS – AUTHORITY AND PROCEDURES FOR PROJECTS INVOLVING
TRANSFERS OF 50,000 SQUARE FEET OR GREATER.	The City Council, acting on
recommendations of the Commission or Agency Board, as required, shall have the
authority to grant Transfers of Floor Area Rights of 50,000 square feet or
greater.  A Transfer to any Project in the City Center Redevelopment Project
Area shall not, by itself, require an Owner Participation Agreement or
Disposition and Development Agreement, or other similar agreement that involves
the application of Agency policies.	A.	Projects Involving a Transfer on a
Receiver Site within the Central City TFAR Area which is not Located within the
City Center Redevelopment Project Area.	1.	Application.  An Applicant seeking a
Transfer shall file a request for approval of a Transfer with the Department on
a form prescribed by the Director of Planning.  The request shall be
accompanied by a proposed Transfer Plan.  The Transfer Plan shall be the only
mechanism for approving the Transfer for any Project involving a Transfer of
Floor Area Rights of 50,000 square feet or greater, pursuant to this article. 
The Department shall forward a copy of the application and Transfer Plan to the
Mayor’s Office, the City Council Office for the City Council District in which
the Receiver Site is located, and the Chief Legislative Analyst within 7
calendar days of receiving the application.  For purposes of this section, an
application shall be deemed to be complete when the Department has received
sufficient information with which to prepare an initial study to assess the
environmental impacts of the proposed Project.	2.	Action by Commission.  The
Director shall issue a report to the Commission recommending approval, approval
with conditions or disapproval of the request for Transfer, including the Public
Benefit Payment and the TFAR Transfer Payment to be provided, with the
recommendation to be based solely upon the degree that the Transfer Plan
complies with the findings and conditions set forth in this section.  After
reviewing the Director’s report, the Commission must make the following
findings in order to recommend approval to the City
Council:	(a)	Findings.	(1)	The increase in Floor Area generated by the proposed
Transfer is appropriate with respect to location and access to public transit
and other modes of transportation, compatible with other existing and proposed
developments and the City’s supporting infrastructure, or otherwise
appropriate for the long-term development of the Central City;	(2)	The Transfer
serves the public interest; and	(3)	The Transfer is in conformance with the
Community Plan and any other relevant policy documents previously adopted by the
Commission or the City Council.	(b)	Conditions of Approval.	(1)	The Transfer
shall provide a Public Benefit Payment, and, if applicable, a TFAR Transfer
payment in conformance, respectively, with Section 14.5.9 and Section 14.5.10 of
this Code;	(2)	Transfer must comply with any urban design standards and
guidelines adopted by the City Planning Commission for the area, including the
Downtown Design Guide, and other applicable design guidelines;	(3)	The
Commission may require additional conditions for the Transfer to ensure
consistency with the purposes and objectives of the Community
Plan.	(c)	Commission Hearing.	(1)	A public hearing on the proposed Transfer for
a Project shall be held by the Commission in accordance with the procedures set
forth in Section 12.24 D. of this Code.	(d)	Time for the Commission to Act.	(1)	
Commission shall act upon any proposed Transfer for a Project within 75 calendar
days from the date of submittal to it of the Director’s report and
recommendation on the Transfer Plan.  This time limit may be extended by mutual
consent of the Applicant and the Commission.  The Commission shall forthwith
transmit a copy of its action to the Applicant and any other person requesting
notice in writing.  If the Commission fails to act on the proposed Transfer
within 75 calendar days, the request shall be automatically submitted to the
City Council for its action.	3.	Appeals.	(a)	Filing of an Appeal.  If the
Commission recommends disapproval of a request, in whole or in part, its action
on any disapproved portion shall be final unless an appeal is taken to the City
Council.  The Applicant may appeal any disapproval within 15 calendar days
after the Commission mails its decision to the Applicant by filing the appeal
with the City Clerk on a form prescribed by the Commission.	(b)	Appellate
Decision – Public Hearing and Notice.  Before the Council acts on the appeal,
it shall hold a public hearing.  The City Clerk shall set the matter for
hearing, giving notice by mail of the time, place and purpose of the hearing to
the applicant and to any interested party who has requested in writing to be so
notified.  The notice shall be mailed at least ten calendar days prior to the
hearing.	(c)	Time for Appellate Decision.  The Council shall make its decision
within 75 calendar days after the expiration of the appeal period.  The 75 day
time limit to act on an appeal may be extended by mutual written consent of the
applicant and the Council.  If the Council fails to act within this time limit,
the failure shall constitute a denial of the application or disapproval of the
initial request.	B.	Projects Involving a Transfer on a Receiver Site within the
City Center Redevelopment Project Area.	1.	Application.  An Applicant seeking a
Transfer shall file a request for approval of a Transfer with the Agency on a
form prescribed jointly by the Director of Planning and the Administrator.  The
request shall be accompanied by a proposed Transfer Plan.  The Transfer Plan
shall be the only mechanism for approving the Transfer for any Project involving
a Transfer of Floor Area Rights of 50,000 square feet or greater, pursuant to
this article.  The Agency shall forward a copy of the application and Transfer
Plan to the Mayor’s Office, the City Council Office for the City Council
District in which the Receiver Site is located, the Department of City Planning
and the Chief Legislative Analyst within 7 calendar days of receiving the
completed application.	2.	Action by Agency Board.  The Administrator shall
issue a report recommending approval, approval with conditions or disapproval of
the request for Transfer, including the Public Benefit Payment and the TFAR
Transfer Payment to be provided, with the recommendation to be based solely upon
the degree that the Transfer Plan complies with the findings and conditions set
forth in this section.  After reviewing the Administrator’s report, the
Agency Board shall make the following findings in order to approve a
Transfer: 	(a)	Findings.	(1)	The increase in Floor Area generated by the
proposed Transfer is appropriate with respect to location and access to public
transit and other modes of transportation, compatible with other existing and
proposed developments and the City’s supporting infrastructure, or otherwise
determined to be appropriate for the long-term development of the Central
City;	(2)	The Project is consistent with the purposes and objectives of the
Redevelopment Plan;	(3)	The Transfer serves the public interest by complying
with the requirements of Section 14.5.9 of this Code; and;	(4)	The Transfer is
in conformance with the Community Plan and any other relevant policy documents
previously adopted by the Commission or the City Council.	(b)	Condition of
Approval.	(1)	The Transfer shall provide a Public Benefit Payment, and, if
applicable, a TFAR Transfer payment in conformance, respectively, with Section
14.5.9 and Section 14.5.10 of this Code.	(2)	The Transfer must comply with any
applicable urban design standards and guidelines adopted for the area, including
the Downtown Design Guide.	3.	Review of Agency Board’s Disapproval or Failure
to Act.  If the Agency Board disapproves a request for approval of a Transfer
for a Project or fails to act on the request within 12 months after the
submission of a completed request for approval of a Transfer to the Agency, the
Applicant may request review of the action of the Agency Board to the
Commission, the initial decision-maker for the City, in accordance with this
subdivision.  For purposes of this subdivision, a request to file an
application shall be deemed to be complete when the Agency has received
sufficient information with which to assess the environmental impacts of the
proposed Project.	(a)	A request for review shall be filed with the Commission no
later than 20 calendar days after the earlier of: (i) the date of disapproval of
a request for approval of a Transfer, or (ii) 12 months after the submission to
the Agency of a completed request for approval of a Transfer.	(b)	The request
for review shall include the proposed Transfer Plan for a Project, and any
documentation received by the Applicant from the Agency Board disapproving the
request for approval of the Transfer.  The request for review shall specify in
detail the grounds for the review.  The request for review shall include other
information as the Commission may request.	(c)	The Commission shall act on the
request for review within 75 calendar days after receipt of the request for
review.  The Commission shall determine whether the Agency Board acted
reasonably, in light of all the circumstances, in disapproving or failing to act
on the request for approval of a Transfer.  In the event the Commission fails
to act within 75 calendar days after receipt of the request for review, the
request for review shall be automatically submitted to the City Council for its
action.	(d)	If the Commission finds for the Applicant on any matter in dispute,
the Commission shall remand the matter to the Agency Board for further action
consistent with the Commission’s decision.  The Commission may impose
conditions on the remanded request as it deems necessary to accomplish the
purposes and objectives of this article.  Upon remand, the Agency Board shall
complete its proceedings with respect to the proposed Transfer in a manner that
is consistent with the Commission’s action on the matter, including any
additional conditions it deems necessary.  If the Agency Board fails to approve
the request for approval of the Transfer within 90 calendar days after the
Commission remands the matter to it, the Applicant may submit the request
directly to the Commission without Agency Board approval.  Thereafter, the
Commission shall proceed pursuant to this Section 14.5.6.	(e)	If the Commission
upholds the Agency Board’s action or failure to act, the Applicant may appeal
the action of the Commission by filing a written appeal with the City Council. 
The City Council shall determine whether the Agency Board acted reasonably in
light of all of the circumstances in disapproving or failing to act on the
request for approval of the Transfer.  Any appeal to the City Council shall be
filed with the City Clerk within 20 calendar days after the Commission’s
action, and shall contain the proposed Transfer Plan and the record of the
proceedings before the Agency Board and the Commission.	(f)	If the City Council
finds for the Applicant on any matter in dispute, the City Council shall remand
the matter to the Agency Board to complete its proceedings with respect to the
proposed Transfer in a manner that is consistent with the City Council’s
action on the matter.  The City Council may impose conditions on the remanded
request as it deems necessary to accomplish the purposes and objectives of this
article.	4.	Commission Review of Agency Board Approval.  If the Agency Board
approves a request for an approval of a Transfer for a Project, the Agency and
the Applicant shall jointly submit the proposed Transfer Plan for the Project to
the Commission, the initial decision-maker for the City, after approval of the
request by the Agency Board.	The Commission may recommend approval, conditional
approval or disapproval of the Transfer for a Project.	(a)	Findings.  In acting
on a Transfer for a Project, the Commission shall make the findings in
Subsection B.2.(a) of this Section 14.5.6.	(b)	Conditions of Approval.	(1)	The
Transfer shall provide a Public Benefit Payment, and, if applicable, a TFAR
Transfer payment in conformance, respectively, with Section 14.5.9 and Section
14.5.10 of this Code; and;	(2)	The Commission may require additional conditions
for the Transfer to ensure consistency with the purposes and objectives of the
Redevelopment Plan and the Community Plan, and to secure an appropriate
development in harmony with the General Plan.	(c)	Commission Hearing.  A public
hearing on the proposed Transfer for a Project shall be held by the Commission
in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 12.24 D. of this
Code.	(d)	Commission Action.	(1)	The Commission shall act upon any proposed
Transfer for a Project within 75 calendar days from the date of submittal to it
of the Agency’s Board approved Transfer Plan.  This time limit may be
extended by mutual consent of the Applicant and the Commission.  The Commission
shall forthwith transmit a copy of its action to the Applicant, the Agency Board
and any other person requesting notice in writing.  If the Commission fails to
act on the proposed Transfer within 75 calendar days, the request shall be
automatically submitted to the City Council for its action.	(2)	If the
Commission recommends disapproval of a request, in whole or in part, its action
on any disapproved portion shall be final unless an appeal is taken to the City
Council.  The Applicant may appeal any disapproval within 15 calendar days
after the Commission mails its decision to the Applicant by filing the appeal
with the City Clerk on a form prescribed by the Commission.	(e)	Council
Action.	(1)	The City Council may approve, conditionally approve or disapprove a
proposed Transfer for a Project by a majority vote.  In acting on the Transfer,
the City Council shall make findings in support of its decision.  The City
Council shall not approve or conditionally approve a Transfer unless it finds
that the development resulting from the Transfer meets each of the standards set
forth in Subsection A.2.(a) and A.2.(b) or B.2.(a) and B.2.(b) of this section,
as applicable.	(2)	The Council may impose conditions as it deems appropriate to
accomplish the purposes and objectives of the Redevelopment and Community Plans
and to assure that the development resulting from the Transfer meets the
standards set forth in Subsection A.2.(a) and A.2.(b) or B.2.(a) and B.2.(b) of
this section, as applicable.	(f)	Mayoral Action.	(1)	When the City Council
approves or conditionally approves a proposed Transfer for a Project, the matter
together with the files and reports shall forthwith be transmitted to the
Mayor.  The Mayor may approve or disapprove the proposed Transfer within ten
calendar days of its presentation to him or her.  This action shall be based
solely upon the administrative record and whether the Mayor believes the
proposed Transfer conforms with the requirements for approval set forth in this
section.  If the Mayor disapproves the proposed Transfer, he or she shall
return the matter to the City Clerk for presentation to the City Council,
together with the objections in writing.  The City Council, within 60 calendar
days after the matter has been returned to it, may override the disapproval by a
two-thirds vote.	(2)	If the City Council fails to override the Mayor’s
disapproval within the 60 calendar days, the Mayor’s disapproval shall
constitute a denial of the proposed Transfer.  If the Mayor fails to return the
matter to the City Clerk within ten calendar days of the presentation to him or
her, the approval of the proposed Transfer shall become final.
