                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PAYMENTS AND VESTING. (§ 14.5.11)

  PAYMENTS AND VESTING.	Any Public Benefit Payment together with any TFAR
Transfer Payment to the Agency or City shall be provided as set forth in the
Transfer Plan and as set forth below: 	A.	If the approved Transfer Plan
specifies a single-phase Project on the Receiver Site, then the owner of the
Receiver Site shall pay the Public Benefit Payment together with any TFAR
Transfer Payment due to the Agency or the City on or before the earlier
of	1.	The issuance of the building permit for the Project; or	2.	Twenty-four
months after the final approval of the Transfer and the expiration of any
appeals or appeals periods, unless extended by the Director in writing, and the
Administrator when the Agency has taken an action on the Transfer Plan.	B.	If
the approved Transfer Plan specifies a multi-phased Project on the Receiver
Site, then the owner of the Receiver Site must pay the Public Benefit Payment
together with any Transfer Payment due to the Agency or the City, through any
one of the three methods set forth below, except as may be extended by the
Director in writing, and the Administrator when the Agency has taken an action
on the Transfer Plan:	1.	In total for all phases of the Project, on or before
the earlier of:  (i) the issuance of the building permit for the first phase of
the Project or (ii) 24 months after the final approval of the Transfer and the
expiration of any appeals or appeals periods for all phases of the
Project;	2.	Incrementally by each phase of the Project, proportionate to the
Floor Area Rights utilized in each phase, on or before the issuance of the
building permit for each phase, with the amount of each payment being subject to
payment indexing in accordance with an executed agreement between the owner of
the Receiver Site and the Agency or the City; or	3.	Incrementally by each phase
of the Project, proportionate to the Floor Area Rights utilized in each phase,
on or before the issuance of the building permit for each phase, with the amount
of each payment being recalculated as of the date that the building permit for
each phase is issued in accordance with an Appraisal establishing the fair
market value of the Receiver Site within six months prior to the issuance of the
building permit for that phase.	C.	Upon the Applicant’s payment to the Agency
or the City of all of the Public Benefit Payment together with all of the TFAR
Transfer Payment required under an approved Transfer, all Floor Area Rights
transferred to the Receiver Site pursuant to the Transfer Plan shall vest in the
Receiver Site and thereafter run with the land.
