                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PUBLIC BENEFIT PAYMENT. (§ 14.5.9)

  PUBLIC BENEFIT PAYMENT.	A.	A shall be provided as part of an approved
Transfer Plan and shall serve a public purpose, such as: providing for
affordable housing; public open space; historic preservation; recreational;
cultural; community and public facilities; job training and outreach programs;
affordable child care; streetscape improvements; public arts programs; homeless
services programs; or public transportation improvements.  Prior to approving
or recommending approval of a Transfer Plan, the Agency Board, Commission or the
City Council shall make a finding that the Public Benefit Payment proposed by
the Applicant in the Transfer Plan, or by the Agency Board, Commission or the
City Council in its conditional approval, will result in Public Benefits with an
economic value consistent with the sum of the Public Benefit Payment set forth
in Subsection C. of this Section 14.5.9.	B.	As approved by the City Council, a
Public Benefit Payment may be provided by any combination of the payment of
monies to the Transfer of Floor Area Rights Public Benefit Payment Trust Fund
(“Public Benefit Payment Trust Fund”) or by the direct provision of Public
Benefits by the Applicant; provided, however, that without City Council approval
at least 50% of the Public Benefit Payment must consist of cash payment by the
Applicant to the Public Benefit Payment Trust fund.	C.	The Public Benefit
Payment under any Transfer Plan shall equal:  (1) the sale price of the
Receiver Site, if it has been purchased through an unrelated third-party
transaction within 18 months of the date of submission of the request for
approval of the Transfer, or an Appraisal, if it has not; (2) divided by the Lot
Area (prior to any dedications) of the Receiver Site; (3) further divided by the
High-Density Floor Area Ratio Factor; (4) multiplied by 40%; and (5) further
multiplied by the number of square feet of Floor Area Rights to be transferred
to the Receiver Site.	[Example:  If Receiver Site with a Lot Area of 100,000
square feet (before any dedications) was purchased for $40,000,000 (through an
unrelated third-party transaction within 18 months of the date of submission of
the request for approval of the Transfer), the Public Benefit Payment under a
Transfer Plan transferring 100,000 square feet of Floor Area Rights would
equal:  (a) $40,000,000 (the purchase price); (b) divided by 100,000 (the Lot
Area of the Receiver Site); (c) divided by 6 (the High-Density Floor Area Ratio
Factor); (d) multiplied by 40%; and (e) multiplied by 100,000 (the number of
square feet of Floor Area Rights to be transferred) = $2,666,666.67 (or $26.67
for each square foot of transferred Floor Area Rights).]
