                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DIRECTOR’S DETERMINATION. (§ 14.5.7)

  DIRECTOR’S DETERMINATION.	A.	Director’s Authority to Approve Transfers of
Less than 50,000 Square Feet of Floor Area.  The Director, acting on
applications for a Transfer of less than 50,000 square feet, shall have the
authority to grant Transfers of Floor Area Rights in accordance with this
Section.  This is in addition to any action required by the Agency for projects
located within the City Center Redevelopment Project Area.	1.	Application.  The
Applicant shall file an application with the Department of City Planning on a
form provided by the Department, and include all information required by the
instructions on the application, including details of the requested transfer,
accompanied by applicable fees.	2.	Director’s Authority.  The Director shall
have the initial decision-making authority to determine whether an application
for a Transfer is consistent with this subsection.	3.	Action by Director.  The
Director shall approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove the request for
Transfer, including the public benefits to be provided, and make the following
findings:	(a)	Findings.	(1)	That the Project is proper in relation to the
adjacent uses or the development of the community;	(2)	That the Project will not
be materially detrimental to the character of development in the immediate
neighborhoods;	(3)	That the Project will be in harmony with the various elements
and objectives of the General Plan;	(4)	That the Project is consistent with any
applicable adopted Redevelopment Plan;	(5)	That the Transfer serves the public
interest by providing public benefits in accordance with Subparagraph (b)(1) of
this subdivision; and	(6)	That the Project incorporates feasible mitigation
measures, monitoring measures when necessary or alternatives identified in the
environmental review which would substantially lessen the significant
environmental effects of the Project, and any additional findings as may be
required by CEQA.	(b)	Conditions of Approval.	(1)	The Transfer shall provide
public benefits equivalent in value to the dollar amount otherwise required for
a Public Benefit Payment, in conformance with Section 14.5.9 of this
Code;	(2)	The Transfer must comply with any urban design standards and
guidelines adopted by the City Planning Commission for the area, including the
Downtown Design Guide, and other applicable design guidelines;	(3)	The Director
may require additional conditions for the Transfer to ensure consistency with
the purposes and objectives of the Community Plan.	4.	Transmittal of Written
Decision.  Within three business days of making a decision, the Director shall
transmit a copy by First Class Mail to: (1) the applicant; (2) all owners of
properties abutting, across the street or alley from, or having a common corner
with the subject property; (3) the local Certified Neighborhood Council; and (4)
the Agency when the Project is located within the City Center Redevelopment
Project Area.	5.	Effective Date of Initial Decision.  The Director’s decision
shall become effective after a period of 15 calendar days from the date of the
mailing of the written decision has elapsed, unless an appeal is filed to the
Area Planning Commission.	6.	Appeals.	(a)	Filing of an Appeal.  An applicant or
any other person aggrieved by the Director’s decision may appeal the decision
to the Area Planning Commission.  The appeal shall be filed within 15 calendar
days of the date of mailing of the Director’s decision on forms provided by
the Department.  The appeal shall specifically set forth the points at issue,
the reasons for the appeal, and the basis upon which the appellant claims there
was an error or abuse of discretion by the Director.  Any appeal not filed
within the 15-day appeal period shall not be considered by the Area Planning
Commission.  The filing of an appeal stays proceedings in the matter until the
Area Planning Commission has made a decision.  Once an appeal is filed, the
Director shall transmit the appeal and the file to the Area Planning Commission,
together with any reports responding to the allegations made in the
appeal.	(b)	Appellate Decision – Public Hearing and Notice.  Before acting on
any appeal, the Area Planning Commission shall set the matter for hearing, with
written notice of the hearing sent by First Class Mail at least 15 calendar days
prior to the meeting date to:  (1) the applicant; (2) the owner(s) of the
property involved; (3) the owners of properties within 100 feet of the exterior
boundaries of the property involved; (4) the Councilmember for the City Council
District in which the property is located; (5) the local Certified Neighborhood
Council; (6) the Agency, when the project is located within the City Center
Redevelopment Project Area; and (7) interested parties who have requested notice
in writing.	(c)	Time for Appellate Decision.  The Area Planning Commission
shall act within 75 calendar days after the expiration of the appeal period or
within any additional period mutually agreed upon by the applicant and the Area
Planning Commission.  The failure of the Area Planning Commission to act within
this time period shall be deemed a denial of the appeal.	(d)	Appellate
Decision.  The Area Planning Commission may reverse or modify, in whole or in
part, a decision of the Director.  The Area Planning Commission shall make the
same findings required to be made by the Director, supported by facts in the
record, and indicate why the Director erred in determining a project’s
compliance with the applicable regulations of this Subsection.	(e)	Effective
Date of Appellate Decision.  The appellate decision of the Area Planning
Commission shall be final and effective as provided in Section 245 of the City
of Los Angeles Charter.
