                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEFINITIONS. (§ 14.5.3)

  DEFINITIONS.	The following terms, whenever used in this article, shall apply
only to the Transfer of Floor Area Rights procedures in this article and shall
be defined as set forth below.  Other terms used in this article shall have the
meanings set forth in Section 12.03 of this Code, if defined
there.	Administrator means the chief executive officer of the Agency and his or
her designee.	Agency means the Community Redevelopment Agency of the City of Los
Angeles.	Agency Board means the Board of Commissioners of the Community
Redevelopment Agency of the City of Los Angeles.	Applicant means the owner of a
Receiver Site who has submitted a proposed Transfer Plan to the Agency or the
Department of City Planning.	Appraisal means an economic valuation of the
Receiver Site submitted by the Applicant, which (a) has been prepared by an MAI
appraiser with at least five years experience in appraising property in the City
and (b) sets forth the fair market value of the Receiver Site (i) as of the date
the application was submitted and (ii) as if the Receiver Site were vacant and
used for its highest and best use under all then current zoning and planning
restrictions and Agency policies affecting the Receiver Site.	Buildable Area
means the same as Lot Area, with the following exception: for the purposes of
computing the maximum Floor Area Rights available through the approval of a
Transfer Plan for a Transit Area Mixed Use Project, as defined herein, the
buildable area shall include the lot area plus the area between the exterior lot
lines and the centerline of any abutting public right-of-way.	Central City TFAR
Area means those portions of the Central City Community Plan Area, including
portions of the City Center Redevelopment Project Area, as shown on Map A, dated
April 30, 2010, and attached to Council File No. 10-1175, generally bounded by:
U.S. Highway 101 on the north; Alameda Street, Los Angeles Street, San Pedro
Street, and Main Street on the east; the Santa Monica Freeway (Interstate 10) on
the south; and the Harbor Freeway (110 Freeway) and Hill Street on the
west.	City Council means the City Council of the City of Los Angeles.	Commission
means the City Planning Commission of the City of Los Angeles.	Community Plan
means the Central City Community Plan, a part of the General Plan of the City of
Los Angeles, and including amendments to the Community Plan.	Department means
the Department of City Planning.	Donor Site means a site within the Central City
TFAR Area from which Floor Area Rights are transferred pursuant to the
provisions of this article.	Floor Area Deviation means the Transfer of Floor
Area of less than 50,000 square feet as determined by the Director.	Floor Area
Ratio (FAR) means the Floor Area of a building divided by the Lot Area of the
lot (prior to any dedications) upon which it is located.  Notwithstanding the
above, the maximum Floor Area Ratio of a Transit Area Mixed Use Project shall
mean the Floor Area of a building divided by the Buildable Area.	Floor Area
Rights means the ability to construct additional Floor Area within a Project,
pursuant to an approved Transfer Plan, in excess of the amount of Floor Area
that Project would be allowed based on its Lot Area, or, in the case of a
Transit Area Mixed Use Project, the Buildable Area.	High-Density Floor Area
Ratio Factor means a denominator of six and is used in calculating the amount of
any TFAR Transfer Payment.	Lot Area means the total horizontal area within the
lot lines of a lot (prior to any dedication).	Project means a building or
structure or structural alteration or enlargement of an existing building or
structure on a Receiver Site within the Central City TFAR Area.	Public Benefits
means amenities provided to the public including, but not limited to, providing
for affordable housing; public open space; historic preservation; recreational,
cultural, community and public facilities; job training and outreach programs;
local hiring; payment of prevailing wages; affordable child care; streetscape
improvements; sustainability features; public arts programs; homeless services
programs; or public transportation improvements.	Public Benefit Payment means
that dollar sum established by the application of the formula set forth in
Section 14.5.9 of this Code.	Public Benefit Payment Trust Fund means that
certain interest-bearing Trust Account administered by the City Clerk’s Office
designated as CB Public Benefit Program Fund 5158, from which funds may be
distributed as set forth in Section 14.5.12 of this Code.	Receiver Site means a
site within the Central City TFAR Area, which receives Floor Area Rights
pursuant to the provisions of this article.	Redevelopment Plan means the City
Center Redevelopment Project adopted by Ordinance No. 174,593 on May 15, 2002,
or as subsequently amended.	Redevelopment Project Area means the City Center
Redevelopment Project Areas, as described in the City Center Redevelopment
Plans.	TFAR Transfer Payment means the payment made by the owner of a Receiver
Site in exchange for the Agency’s or City’s Transfer of Floor Area Rights to
a Receiver Site pursuant to the valuation method set forth in Section 14.5.10 of
this Code.	Transfer means the conveyance of unused allowable Floor Area of a lot
from a Donor Site to a Receiver Site, which is approved in accordance with the
requirements of this article.	Transfer Plan means a plan that identifies and
describes the Donor Site(s), Receiver Site(s), the amount of Floor Area Rights
to be transferred and the Public Benefit Payment.	Transit Area Mixed Use Project
means any Project or portion of a Project in the Central City TFAR Area that:
(1) provides floor area for at least two different land uses, such as commercial
office and commercial retail, commercial office and multi-family residential, or
commercial retail and hotel, or any other combination of uses; (2) is located
within 1500 feet of a fixed rail transit station, as measured from the exterior
lot line to the nearest station entrance; and (3) meets the standards and
guidelines in the Downtown Design Guide.
