                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

EVICTIONS. (§ 151.09)

  EVICTIONS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 154,237, Eff. 8/30/80, Oper. 9/1/80.)	A.	A landlord may
bring an action to recover possession of a rental unit only upon one of the
following grounds:	1.	The tenant has failed to pay the rent to which the
landlord is entitled, including amounts due under Subsection D of Section
151.05.	2.	(Amended by Ord. No. 175,130, Eff. 3/31/03.)  The tenant has
violated a lawful obligation or covenant of the tenancy and has failed to cure
the violation after having received written notice from the landlord, other than
a violation based on:	(a)	The obligation to surrender possession upon proper
notice; or	(b)	The obligation to limit occupancy, provided that the additional
tenant who joins the occupants of the unit thereby exceeding the limits on
occupancy set forth in the rental agreement is either the first or second
dependent child to join the existing tenancy of a tenant of record or the sole
additional adult tenant.  For purposes of this section, multiple births shall
be considered as one child.  The landlord, however, has the right to approve or
disapprove the prospective additional tenant, who is not a minor dependent
child, provided that the approval is not unreasonably withheld; or	(c)	A change
in the terms of the tenancy that is not the result of an express written
agreement signed by both of the parties.  For purposes of this section, a
landlord may not unilaterally change the terms of the tenancy under Civil Code
Section 827 and then evict the tenant for the violation of the added covenant
unless the tenant has agreed in writing to the additional covenant.  The tenant
must knowingly consent, without threat or coercion, to each change in the terms
of the tenancy.  A landlord is not required to obtain a tenant’s written
consent to a change in the terms of the tenancy if the change in the terms of
the tenancy is authorized by Los Angeles Municipal Code Section 151.06, or if
the landlord is required to change the terms of the tenancy pursuant to federal,
state, or local law.  Nothing in this paragraph shall exempt a landlord from
providing legally required notice of a change in the terms of the
tenancy.	3.	(Amended by Ord. No. 180,449, Eff. 2/5/09.)  The tenant is
committing or permitting to exist a nuisance in or is causing damage to, the
rental unit or to the unit’s appurtenances, or to the common areas of the
complex containing the rental unit, or is creating an unreasonable interference
with the comfort, safety, or enjoyment of any of the other residents of the
rental complex or within a 1,000 foot radius extending from the boundary line of
the rental complex.	The term “nuisance” as used in this subdivision
includes, but is not limited to, any gang-related crime, violent crime, unlawful
weapon or ammunition crime or threat of violent crime, illegal drug activity,
any documented activity commonly associated with illegal drug dealing, such as
complaints of noise, steady traffic day and night to a particular unit,
barricaded units, possession of weapons, or drug loitering as defined in Health
and Safety Code Section 11532, or other drug related circumstances brought to
the attention of the landlord by other tenants, persons within the community,
law enforcement agencies or prosecution agencies.  For purposes of this
subdivision, gang-related crime is any crime motivated by gang membership in
which the perpetrator, victim or intended victim is a known member of a gang. 
Violent crime is any crime which involves use of a gun, a deadly weapon or
serious bodily injury and for which a police report has been completed.  A
violent crime under this subdivision shall not include a crime that is committed
against a person residing in the same rental unit as the person committing the
crime.  Unlawful weapon or ammunition crime is the illegal use, manufacture,
causing to be manufactured, importation, possession, possession for sale, sale,
furnishing, or giving away of ammunition or any weapon listed in subdivision
(c)(1)-(5) of Section 3485 of the Civil Code.	Threat of violent crime is any
statement made by a tenant, or at his or her request, by his or her agent to any
person who is on the premises or to the owner of the premises, or his or her
agent, threatening the commission of a crime which will result in death or great
bodily injury to another person, with the specific intent that the statement is
to be taken as a threat, even if there is no intent of actually carrying it out,
when on its face and under the circumstances in which it is made, it is so
unequivocal, immediate and specific as to convey to the person threatened, a
gravity of purpose and an immediate prospect of execution of the threat, and
thereby causes that person reasonably to be in sustained fear for his or her own
safety or for his or her immediate family’s safety.  Such a threat includes
any statement made verbally, in writing, or by means of an electronic
communication device and regarding which a police report has been completed.  A
threat of violent crime under this section shall not include a crime that is
committed against a person who is residing in the same rental unit as the person
making the threat.  “Immediate family” means any spouse, whether by
marriage or not, parent, child, any person related by consanguinity of affinity
within the second degree, or any other person who regularly resides in the
household, or who, within the prior six months, regularly resided in the
household.  “Electronic communication device” includes but is not limited
to, telephones, cellular telephones, video recorders, fax machines, or pagers. 
“Electronic communications” has the same meaning as the term is defined in
subsection 12 of Section 2510 of Title 18 of the United States Code, except that
“electronic communication” for purposes of this definition shall not be
limited to electronic communication that affects interstate or foreign
commerce.	Illegal drug activity is a violation of any of the provisions of
Chapter 6 (commencing with Section 11350) or Chapter 6.5 (commencing with
Section 11400) of the Health and Safety Code.	4.	(Amended by Ord. No. 171,442,
Eff. 1/19/97.)  The tenant is using, or permitting a rental unit, the common
areas of the rental complex containing the rental unit, or an area within a
1,000 foot radius from the boundary line of the rental complex to be used for
any illegal purpose.	The term “illegal purpose” as used in this subdivision
includes, but is not limited to, violations of any of the provisions of Chapter
6 (commencing with Section 11350) or Chapter 6.5 (commencing with section 11400)
of the Health and Safety Code.	5.	The tenant, who had a written lease or rental
agreement which terminated on or after the effective date of this chapter, has
refused, after written request or demand by the landlord to execute a written
extension or renewal thereof for a further term of like duration with similar
provisions and in such terms as are not inconsistent with or violative of any
provision of this chapter or any other provision of law.	6.	The tenant has
refused the landlord reasonable access to the unit for the purpose of making
repairs or improvements, or for the purpose of inspection as permitted or
required by the lease or by law, or for the purpose of showing the rental unit
to any prospective purchaser or mortgagee.	7.	The person in possession of the
rental unit at the end of a lease term is a subtenant not approved by the
landlord.	8.	(Amended by Ord. No. 180,747, Eff. 8/1/09.)  The landlord seeks in
good faith to recover possession of the rental unit for use and occupancy as a
primary place of residence by:	(a)	The landlord; or	(b)	The landlord’s spouse,
grandchildren, children, parents or grandparents; or 	(c)	A resident
manager.	Landlords seeking to recover possession pursuant to the provisions of
this Subdivision must comply with the restrictions and requirements of Section
151.30, as well as all other relevant provisions of this Article.	9.	(Amended by
Ord. No. 176,544, Eff. 5/2/05.)  The landlord, having complied with all
applicable notices and advisements required by law, seeks in good faith to
recover possession so as to undertake Primary Renovation Work of the rental unit
or the building housing the rental unit, in accordance with a Tenant
Habitability Plan accepted by the Department, and the tenant is unreasonably
interfering with the landlord’s ability to implement the requirements of the
Tenant Habitability Plan by engaging in any of the following actions:	a.	The
tenant has failed to temporarily relocate as required by the accepted Tenant
Habitability Plan; or	b.	The tenant has failed to honor a permanent relocation
agreement with the landlord pursuant to Section 152.05 of this
Code.	10.	(Amended by Ord. No. 176,544, Eff. 5/2/05.)  The landlord seeks in
good faith to recover possession of the rental unit under either of the
following circumstances: 	a.	to demolish the rental unit; or	b.	to remove the
rental unit permanently from rental housing use.	Landlords seeking to recover
possession for either of the circumstances described in this subdivision must
comply with the requirements of Sections 151.22 through 151.28 of this
article.  This subdivision is a lawful grounds for eviction only where a
landlord is withdrawing from rent or lease all of the rental units in a
structure or building.  A landlord seeking to evict tenants pursuant to either
of the circumstances described in this subdivision may not withdraw from rent or
lease less than all of the accommodations in a structure or building.  (Para.
Added by Ord. No. 177,901, Eff. 9/29/06.)	11.	The landlord seeks in good faith
to recover possession of the rental unit in order to comply with a governmental
agency’s order to vacate, order to comply, order to abate, or any other order
that necessitates the vacating of the building housing the rental unit as a
result of a violation of the Los Angeles Municipal Code or any other provision
of law.  (Amended by Ord. No. 172,288, Eff. 12/17/98.)	12.	The Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development is both the owner and plaintiff and seeks to
recover possession in order to vacate the property prior to sale and has
complied with all tenant notification requirements under federal law and
administrative regulations.  (Added by Ord. No. 173,224, Eff. 5/11/00.)
 	13.	The rental unit is in a Residential Hotel, and the landlord seeks to
recover possession of the rental unit in order to Convert or Demolish the unit,
as those terms are defined in Section 47.73 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code. 
A landlord may recover possession of a rental unit pursuant to this paragraph
only after the Department has approved an Application for Clearance pursuant to
the provisions of Section 47.78.  (Amended by Ord. No. 180,175, Eff.
9/29/08.)	14.	The landlord seeks to recover possession of the rental unit to
convert the subject property to an affordable housing accommodation in
accordance with an affordable housing exemption issued by the Department
pursuant to Section 151.02 of this Code.  If the landlord fails to record a
government imposed regulatory agreement within six months of the filing of the
affordable housing exemption with the Department in accordance with Section
151.02 of this Code, and the landlord seeks to offer the rental unit for rent or
lease, the accommodations shall be offered and rented or leased at the lawful
rent in effect at the time the affordable housing exemption was filed with the
Department, plus annual adjustments available pursuant to Section 151.06 of this
Code.  Furthermore, the landlord shall first offer to rent or lease the unit to
the tenant(s) displaced from that unit pursuant to this Subdivision, provided
that the tenant(s) advised the landlord in writing within 30 days of
displacement of his or her desire to consider an offer to renew the tenancy and
provided the landlord with an address to which that offer is to be directed. 
The tenant(s) may subsequently advise the landlord of a change of address to
which an offer is to be directed.  A landlord who re-offers the rental unit
pursuant to the provisions of this Subdivision shall deposit the offer in the
United States mail, by registered or certified mail with postage prepaid,
addressed to the displaced tenant(s) at the address furnished to the landlord as
provided in this Subdivision, and shall describe the terms of the offer.  The
displaced tenant(s) shall have 30 days from the deposit of the offer in the mail
to accept the offer by personal delivery of that acceptance to the Department or
deposit of the acceptance in the United States mail by registered or certified
mail with postage prepaid.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,744, Eff. 7/15/11.)	B.	If
the dominant intent of the landlord in seeking to recover possession of a rental
unit is retaliation against the tenant for exercising his or her rights under
this chapter or because of his or her complaint to an appropriate agency as to
tenantability of a rental unit, and if the tenant is not in default as to the
payment of rent, then the landlord may not recover possession of a rental unit
in any action or proceeding or cause the tenant to quit involuntarily. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 161,865, Eff. 1/19/87.)	C.	(Amended by Ord. No. 156,597,
Eff. 5/20/82, Oper. 5/15/82.)  Prior to or at the same time as the written
notice of termination described in Civil Code Section 1946, or the three days’
notice described in Code of Civil Procedure Sections 1161 and 1161a, is served
on the tenant of a rental unit:	1.	The landlord shall serve on the tenant a
written notice setting forth the reasons for the termination with specific facts
to permit a determination of the date, place, witnesses and circumstances
concerning the reason.  This notice shall be given in the manner prescribed by
Code of Civil Procedure Section 1162.	2.	When the termination of tenancy is
based on the grounds set forth in Subdivision 8. of Subsection A. of this
Section, the landlord shall file with the Department a declaration on a form and
in the number prescribed by the Department identifying the person to be moved
into the rental unit, the date on which the person will move in, the rent
presently charged for the rental unit, and the date of the last rental
increase.  This declaration shall be served on the tenant in the manner
prescribed by Code of Civil Procedure Section 1162 in lieu of the notice
required in Subdivision 1. of this Subsection.  When filing the declaration,
the landlord shall pay an administrative fee in the amount of $75.  The fee
shall pay for the cost of administering and enforcing the provisions of Section
151.30 of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 180,747, Eff. 8/1/09.)	3.	When a
termination of tenancy is based on the ground set forth in Section 151.09 A.9.
of this Code, the landlord shall file with the Department a declaration on a
form prescribed by the Department that sets forth the address of the rental
unit, the name of the tenant, a copy of the Tenant Habitability Plan accepted by
the Department, documentation of the landlord’s good faith efforts to provide
notice pursuant to Section 152.00 et seq. of this Code, documentation of efforts
to provide relocation assistance, if applicable, and the reason for the
termination with specific facts, including but not limited to the date, place,
witnesses and circumstances concerning the reason for termination.  This
declaration shall be served on the tenant in the manner prescribed by Section
1162 of the California Code of Civil Procedure in lieu of the notice required in
Subdivision 1. of this subsection.  (Amended by Ord. No. 176,544, Eff.
5/2/05.)	4.	When the termination of the tenancy is based on either of the
grounds set forth in Subdivision 10. of Subsection A. of this section, the
landlord must comply with the requirements of Sections 151.22 through 151.28 of
this article.  The requirements of Sections 151.22 through 151.28 of this
article are in lieu of the notice required in Subdivision 1. of this
subsection.  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,901, Eff. 9/29/06.)	5.	When the
termination of tenancy is based on the ground set forth in Subdivision 11. of
Subsection A. of this section, then the landlord shall file with the Department
a declaration on the form and in the number prescribed by the Department stating
that the landlord intends to evict in order to comply with a governmental
agency’s order to vacate the building housing the rental unit. The landlord
shall attach a copy of the order to vacate to this declaration. This notice
shall be served on the tenant in the manner prescribed by Code of Civil
Procedure Section 1162 in lieu of the notice required in Subdivision 1. of this
subsection.  (Added by Ord No, 164,685, Eff. 5/11/89.)	6.	When the termination
of tenancy is based on the grounds set forth in Subdivision 3. or 4. of
Subsection A. of this Section because of alleged illegal drug activity, then the
landlord shall file with the Department a declaration on a form and in the
manner prescribed by the Department.  (Amended by Ord. No. 180,981, Eff.
12/26/09.)	7.	When the termination of tenancy is based on the grounds set forth
in Subdivision 3. or 4. of Subsection A. of this Section because of alleged
gang-related crime, violent crime, unlawful weapon or ammunition crime, threat
of violent crime, illegal drug activity or drug-related nuisance as those terms
are defined in Section 47.50 A. of this Code, and the landlord desires to raise
the rent upon re-rental of the rental unit pursuant to Section 151.06 of this
Chapter, then the landlord shall file with the Department a declaration on a
form and in the manner prescribed by the Department, including the name of the
law enforcement or prosecution agency that provided the landlord with the
information upon which the notice of intent to terminate the tenancy will be
based.  (Amended by Ord. No. 180,981, Eff. 12/26/09.)	8.	When the termination
of tenancy is based on the grounds set forth in Subdivision 12. of Subsection A.
of this section, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, or the
Secretary’s representative, shall file with the Department a declaration on a
form and in the number prescribed by the Department stating that the Secretary
has complied with all tenant notification requirements under federal law and
administrative regulations.  (Added by Ord. No. 173,224, Eff. 5/11/00.)  	D.	A
landlord shall not change the terms of a tenancy to prohibit pets and then evict
the tenant for keeping a pet which was kept and allowed prior to the change,
unless the landlord can establish that the pet constitutes a nuisance and the
nuisance has not been abated upon proper notice to the tenant.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 154,736, Eff. 1/9/81; Amended by Ord. No. 174,488, Eff. 4/1/02; Ord.
No. 174,488 Repealed by Ord. No. 174,501, Eff. 4/11/02.)	E.	In any action by a
landlord to recover possession of a rental unit, the tenant may raise as an
affirmative defense any violation of the provisions of this chapter. Violation
of Subsections A., B. or D. of this section shall not constitute a
misdemeanor.  (Amended by Ord. No. 166,130, Eff. 9/16/90.)	F.	In any action by
a landlord to recover possession of a rental unit, the tenant may raise as an
affirmative defense the failure of the landlord to comply with Sections 151.04
C. and 151.05 A. of this Chapter.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,359, Eff.
1/26/13.)	G.	(Amended by Ord. No. 181,744, Eff. 7/15/11.)  Except for
relocation fees owed pursuant to the provisions of Subsection E. of Section
151.30 of this Code, if the termination of tenancy is based on the grounds set
forth in Subdivisions 8., 10., 11., 12., or 13. of Subsection A. of this
Section, then the landlord shall pay a relocation fee of:  $15,500 to qualified
tenants and a $7,300 fee to all other tenants who have lived in their rental
unit for fewer than three years, or $18,300 to qualified tenants and a $9,650
fee to all other tenants who have lived in their rental unit for three years or
longer, or $18,300 to qualified tenants and $9,650 to all other tenants whose
household income is 80 percent or below Area Median Income (AMI), as adjusted
for household size, as defined by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development, regardless of length of tenancy.  If more than one fee applies to
a rental unit, the landlord shall pay the highest of the applicable fees. 
Tenants who claim eligibility based on their income shall file a statement with
the Department verifying their income on a form prescribed by the Department. 
Requests for a hearing to appeal a decision regarding a tenant’s relocation
assistance eligibility, including disputes about eligibility for higher
relocation assistance based on a tenant’s income, age, length of tenancy,
family status and/or disability status, must be filed in writing on the form
prescribed by the Department and received by the Department within fifteen
calendar days of the date of the Department’s notification of its decision
regarding tenant relocation assistance.	The Department shall charge a fee of
$193 per rental unit for any requests for hearings under this Subsection to pay
for the cost of the appeal hearing.  For the year beginning July 1, 2009, and
all subsequent years, the fee amounts shall be adjusted on an annual basis
pursuant to the formula set forth in Section 151.06 D. of this Code.  The
adjusted amount shall be rounded to the nearest $50 increment.	If termination of
the tenancy is based on the grounds set forth in Section 151.09 A.11. of this
Code, and the subject property has an approved use as a single family home and
the structure containing the single family home contains two rental units, the
landlord shall pay a relocation fee in accordance with Section 151.09 G. of this
Code to the tenant(s) of the affected rental unit(s) within 15 days of receiving
notice from the tenant(s) of their intention to terminate the
tenancy.	1.	(Amended by Ord. No. 178,632, Eff. 5/26/07.)  This payment shall be
made as follows:	a.	The entire fee shall be paid to a tenant who is the only
tenant in a rental unit;	b.	If a rental unit is occupied by two or more tenants,
then each tenant of the unit shall be paid an equal, pro-rata share of the
fee;	c.	Nothing in this subsection relieves the landlord from the obligation to
provide relocation assistance pursuant to City administrative agency action or
any other provision of local, state or federal law.  If a tenant is entitled to
monetary relocation benefits pursuant to City administrative agency action or
any provision of local, state or federal law, then those benefits shall operate
as a credit against any fee required to be paid to the tenant under this
section.	d.	If the termination of tenancy is based on the grounds set forth in
Subdivisions 8., 10., 11. or 12. of Subsection A. of this section, then the
landlord shall also pay the City a fee for the purpose of providing relocation
assistance by the City’s Relocation Assistance Service Provider, as defined in
Sections 47.06 B. and 47.07 B. of this Code.  The fee shall be $640 for each
unit occupied by a qualified tenant and $400 for each unit occupied by other
tenants, and an additional $55 per unit to pay for the administrative costs
associated with this service.  The fees, set forth above, may be increased in
an amount based on the Consumer Price Index – All Urban Consumers averaged for
the first 12-month period ending September 30, of each year, as determined and
published by the Housing Department on or before May 30, of each year, pursuant
to Section 151.07 A.6. of this Code.  The Relocation Assistance Service
Provider will provide the relocation assistance services listed in Sections
47.06 D. and 47.07 D. of this Code.	2.	The landlord shall perform the acts
described in this subsection within fifteen days of service of a written notice
of termination described in California Civil Code Section 1946; provided,
however, the landlord may in its sole discretion, elect to pay the monetary
relocation benefits to be paid to a tenant pursuant to this subsection to an
escrow account to be disbursed to the tenant upon certification of vacation of
the rental housing unit. The escrow account shall provide for the payment prior
to vacation of all or a portion of the monetary relocation benefits for actual
relocation expenses incurred or to be incurred by the tenant prior to vacation,
including but not limited to security deposits, moving expense deposits and
utility connection charges.  Escrow accounts shall provide that, in the event
of disputes between the landlord and the tenant as to the release of funds from
escrow, the funds in dispute shall be released to the Department for final
determination.  The Rent Adjustment Commission shall establish guidelines for
the establishment of these escrow accounts, the certification of vacation and
pre-vacation disbursement requests.	3.	The requirement to pay relocation
assistance is applicable to all rental units, regardless of whether the rental
unit was created or established in violation of any provision of
Law.	4.	Exceptions.  This subsection shall not apply in any of the following
circumstances:	a.	(None)	b.	The tenant received actual written notice, prior to
entering into a written or oral tenancy agreement, that an application to
subdivide the property for condominium, stock cooperative or community apartment
purposes was on file with the City or had already been approved, whichever the
case may be, and that the existing building would be demolished or relocated in
connection with the proposed new subdivision, and the termination of tenancy is
based on the grounds set forth in Subdivision 10. of Subsection A. of this
section.  (Amended by Ord. No. 176,544, Eff. 5/2/05.)	c.	The tenant received
actual written notice, prior to entering into a written or oral agreement to
become a tenant, that an application to convert the building to a condominium,
stock cooperative or community apartment project was on file with the City or
had already been approved, whichever the case may be, and the termination of
tenancy is based on the grounds set forth in Subdivision 10. of Subsection A. of
this section.  (Amended by Ord. No. 176,544, Eff. 5/2/05.)	d.	The landlord
seeks in good faith to recover possession of the rental unit for use and
occupancy by a resident manager, provided that the resident manager is replacing
the existing resident manager in the same unit.  For the purposes of this
exception, a resident manager shall not include the landlord, or the
landlord’s spouse, grandchildren, children, parents or grandparents;  (Second
Sentence Amended by Ord. No. 180,747, Eff. 8/1/09.)	e.	The landlord seeks in
good faith to recover possession of the rental unit in order to comply with a
governmental agency’s order to vacate the building housing the rental unit due
to hazardous conditions caused by a natural disaster.	H.	In any action by a
landlord to recover possession of a rental unit, the tenant may raise as an
affirmative defense the failure of the landlord to comply with Subsection G. of
this section.  In addition, any landlord who fails to provide monetary
relocation assistance as required by Subsection G. of this section shall be
liable in a civil action to the tenant to whom such assistance is due for
damages in the amount the landlord has failed to pay, together with reasonable
attorney fees and costs as determined by the court.  (Added by Ord. No.
160,791, Eff. 2/10/86.)	I.	If the termination of tenancy was based on the
grounds set forth in Subdivision 8. of Subsection A. of this section, the
landlord shall file with the Department a declaration on a form prescribed by
the Department within ten calendar days of the re-rental of the rental unit. 
(First Sentence Amended by Ord. No. 177,901, Eff. 9/29/06.)  This declaration
shall indicate the address of the rental unit, the date of the re-rental, the
amount of rent being charged to the current tenant, the name of the current
tenant and such further information as requested by the Department.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)	J.	(Repealed by Ord. No. 181,744, Eff.
7/15/11.)	K.	(Repealed by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)	L.	Other
Displacements.  (Added by Ord. No. 169,372, Eff. 3/1/94.)	1.	Notwithstanding
any provision of the Los Angeles Municipal Code to the contrary, if a tenant of
a unit subject to the City’s Rent Stabilization Ordinance is forced to vacate
her/his unit as a result of the January 17, 1994 earthquake and aftermath, and
if the landlord desires to re-rent that unit, then, prior to offering the unit
to any other tenant and within 30 days after completion of repairs to the unit,
the landlord shall offer in writing to the tenant the same unit under the same
terms and conditions as existed prior to her/his displacement, except that the
landlord may apply for a rent increase as may be approved by the City’s Rent
Stabilization Division, or by the Rent Adjustment Commission on appeal, pursuant
to the City’s Rent Stabilization Ordinance.	2.	The tenant shall have five days
after receipt of the landlord’s offer to inspect the unit and accept or reject
the offer.  If accepted, the tenant shall occupy the unit within 30 days from
the date of acceptance of the offer.	3.	The tenant shall, within 45 days of the
effective date of the ordinance, provide written notice to the landlord of the
tenant’s interest to reoccupy the rental unit once all necessary repair work
has been completed.  The tenant who desires to reoccupy the rental unit shall
furnish the landlord with the tenant’s current address and shall notify the
landlord in writing of any change of address.  If a tenant is unable to
ascertain an address of the landlord to which the notice can be sent, the tenant
may file a copy of the notice with the City’s Rent Stabilization Division, and
this notice shall constitute compliance by the tenant with the obligation to
notify the landlord.  Upon request by the landlord, the Rent Stabilization
Division shall provide the landlord with any copies of any written notices
received by the Rent Stabilization Division.	4.	The costs of rehabilitation
which are necessary before re-renting a unit which was damaged as set forth in
Subdivision 1 above, which costs were not reimbursed by insurance proceeds, or
by Federal, State, or local grant funds, or by any other means (such as a
satisfied judgment), may be passed through to the tenant by utilization of the
process set forth in the Rent Stabilization Ordinance.  The landlord may serve
a 30-day notice (as required by state law) of a proposed rent increase on the
tenant 15 days after the landlord has applied to the Rent Stabilization Division
for such an increase.  The landlord shall not accept or demand a rent increase
from the tenant until the landlord receives the City’s approval of the rent
increase.  The Rent Stabilization Division shall inform the landlord and tenant
of all their rights regarding the proposed rent increase as currently required
by the City’s Rent Stabilization Ordinance.	5.	If a tenant either fails to
accept the offer, give notice, or take possession of the rental unit, within the
applicable time periods described, the landlord shall be free to offer the unit
to any tenant, subject to the requirements of the Rent Stabilization
Ordinance.	6.	A landlord who attempts to re-rent a unit, but refuses to allow a
tenant to return to her/his home under this subsection shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.  Any person who violates this subsection shall also be liable in a
civil action for damages and/or injunctive relief, if appropriate, together with
reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs as determined by the court.	7.	The
landlord’s offers and notices required shall be given in the manner prescribed
by Code of Civil Procedure Section 1162 or by certified mail.  The tenant shall
give any acceptance or notice by first class mail or by utilizing the procedures
set forth in Section 1162 at the tenant’s option.  If any notice, offer, or
acceptance is given by mail, then the postmark date shall be deemed the date of
that notice, offer, or acceptance.	8.	The Rent Stabilization Division shall
attempt to notify affected tenants and landlords of the provisions of the
ordinance and may devise any forms it deems necessary to implement the ordinance
for use by landlords and tenants.  The Rent Adjustment Commission shall have
the authority to promulgate any rules and regulations it deems necessary to
implement the ordinance.	9.	The provisions of this subsection shall apply to
tenants regardless of whether or not their security deposits were returned in
accordance with state law.	10.	The provisions of this subsection shall not apply
to any tenant whose tenancy was the subject of a judicial proceeding to
terminate the tenancy prior to January 17, 1994, if that proceeding results in a
final judgment terminating the tenancy.
