                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEFINITIONS. (§ 151.02)

  DEFINITIONS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 165,251, Eff. 11/20/89.)	The following words and phrases,
whenever used in this chapter, shall be construed as defined in this section. 
Words and phrases not defined herein shall be construed as defined in Sections
12.03 and 152.02 of this Code, if defined therein.  (Amended by Ord. No.
176,544, Eff. 5/2/05.)	Average Per Unit Capital Improvement Cost.  An amount
determined by dividing the cost of the capital improvement by the total number
of dwellings in a complex with respect to which the cost was incurred,
irrespective of whether all such dwellings are subject to this chapter.	Average
Per Unit Primary Renovation Work Cost.  An amount determined by dividing the
costs associated with primary renovation work by the total number of all rental
units in a complex with respect to which primary renovation costs were incurred,
irrespective of whether all such dwellings are subject to this chapter.  (Added
by Ord. No. 176,544, Eff. 5/2/05.)	Average Per Unit Rehabilitation Cost.  An
amount determined by dividing the cost of the rehabilitation, less any
offsetting insurance proceeds, by the total number of dwellings in a complex
with respect to which the cost was incurred, irrespective of whether all such
dwellings are subject to this chapter.	Capital Improvement.  The addition or
replacement of the following improvements to a rental unit or common areas of
the housing complex containing the rental unit, providing such new improvement
has a useful life of five (5) years or more: roofing, carpeting, draperies,
stuccoing the outside of a building, air conditioning, security gates, swimming
pool, sauna or hot tub, fencing, garbage disposal, washing machine or clothes
dryer, dishwasher, children’s play equipment permanently installed on the
premises, the complete exterior painting of a building, and other similar
improvements as determined by the Commission. Provided, however, that the
complete exterior painting of a building shall only be considered as an eligible
capital improvement once every ten (10) years.  (Amended by Ord. No. 165,251,
Eff. 11/20/89.)	Collateral Work.  (Deleted by Ord. No. 176,544, Eff.
5/2/05.)	Commission.  The Rent Adjustment Commission of the City of Los
Angeles.	Department.  The Los Angeles Housing Department.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 168,842, Eff. 7/24/93.)	Housing Services.  Services connected with the use
or occupancy of a rental unit including, but not limited to, utilities
(including light, heat, water and telephone), ordinary repairs or replacement,
and maintenance, including painting.  This term shall also include the
provision of elevator service, laundry facilities and privileges, common
recreational facilities, janitor service, resident manager, refuse removal,
furnishings, food service, parking and any other benefits privileges or
facilities.  (Amended by Ord. No. 154,808, Eff. 2/13/81.)	Landlord.  An owner,
lessor, or sublessor, (including any person, firm, corporation, partnership, or
other entity) who receives or is entitled to receive rent for the use of any
rental unit, or the agent, representative or successor of any of the
foregoing.	Luxury Housing Accommodations.  Housing accommodations wherein as of
May 31, 1978 the rent charged per month was at least $302 for a unit with no
bedrooms; $420 for a unit with one bedroom; $588 for a unit with two bedrooms;
$756 for a unit with three bedrooms; and $823 for a unit with four bedrooms or
more. This definition does not apply to mobile homes.  (Added by Ord. No.
154,237, Eff. 8/30/80, Oper. 9/1/80.)	Maximum Adjusted Rent.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 173,810, Eff. 4/16/01.)  The maximum rent plus any rent increases
subsequently made or granted pursuant to Sections 151.06, 151.07, or 151.08 of
this chapter and less any rent reductions required by regulations promulgated by
the Commission pursuant to Section 151.08 of this chapter or imposed pursuant to
Section 162.00 et seq. of this Code; provided, however, as used in Section
151.06 of this chapter, this term shall not include:	(1)	any increase for
capital improvement work or rehabilitation work, if the rent increase was
approved by the Department on or after January 1, 1981, and the work was begun
prior to June 1, 1982; or	(2)	any increase for capital improvement work where
the application for a rent increase is filed with the Department on or after
October 1, 1989; or,	(3)	any increase for smoke detectors installed on or after
January 1, 1981; or	(4)	any increase for rehabilitation work where the
application for a rent increase is filed with the Department on or after January
1, 1999.	Maximum Rent.  The highest legal monthly rate of rent which was in
effect for the rental unit during any portion of the month of April, 1979.  If
a rental unit was not rented during said month, then it shall be the highest
legal monthly rate of rent in effect between October 1, 1978 and March 31,
1979.  If a rental unit was not rented during this period, then it shall be the
rent legally in effect at the time the rental unit was or is first re-rented
after the effective date of this chapter.  Where a rental unit was exempt from
the provisions of this chapter under Subdivision 5 of the definition of
“Rental Units” in this section, the maximum rent shall be the amount of rent
last charged for the rental unit while it was exempt.  (Amended by Ord. No.
166,320, Eff. 11/22/90.)	Mobilehome Owner.  A person who has a tenancy in a
mobilehome park under a rental agreement.  (Added by Ord. No. 180,071, Eff.
8/30/08.)	Preceding Tenant.  The tenant who vacated the rental unit as the
result of an eviction or termination of tenancy pursuant to Section 151.09
A.9.  (Added by Ord. No. 165,251, Eff. 11/20/89.)	Primary Renovation Work. 
(Added by Ord. No. 176,544, Eff. 5/2/05.)  Work performed either on a rental
unit or on the building containing the rental unit that improves the property by
prolonging its useful life or adding value, and involves either or both of the
following:	1.	Replacement or substantial modification of any structural,
electrical, plumbing or mechanical system that requires a permit under the Los
Angeles Municipal Code.	2.	Abatement of hazardous materials, such as lead-based
paint and asbestos, in accordance with applicable federal, state and local
laws.	Primary Work.  (Deleted by Ord. No. 176,544 Eff. 5/2/05.)	Qualified
Tenant.  Any tenant who satisfies any of the following criteria on the date of
service of the written notice of termination described in California Civil Code
Section 1946: has attained age 62; is handicapped as defined in Section 50072 of
the California Health and Safe Code is disabled as defined in Title 42 United
States Code § 423; or is a person residing with and on whom is legally
dependent (as determined for federal income tax purposes) one or more minor
children.  (Amended by Ord. No. 162,743, Eff. 9/24/87.)	Rehabilitation Work. 
Any rehabilitation or repair work done on or in a rental unit or common area of
the housing complex containing the rental unit and which work was done in order
to comply with an order issued by the Department of Building and Safety, the
Health Department, or the Fire Department due to changes in the housing code
since January 1, 1979, or to repair damage resulting from fire, earthquake or
other natural disaster.  (Amended by Ord. No. 165,251, Eff. 11/20/89.)	Related
Work.  Improvements or repairs which, in and of themselves, do not constitute
Primary Renovation Work but which are undertaken in conjunction with and are
necessary to the initiation and/or completion of Primary Renovation Work. 
(Added by Ord. No. 176,544, Eff. 5/2/05.)	Rent.  The consideration, including
any bonus, benefits or gratuity, demanded or received by a landlord for or in
connection with the use or occupancy of a rental unit, including but not limited
to monies demanded or paid for the following: meals where required by the
landlord as a condition of the tenancy; parking; furnishings; other housing
services of any kind; subletting; or security deposits.  (Amended by Ord. No.
154,808, Eff. 2/13/81.)	Rent Increase.  An increase in rent or any reduction in
housing services where there is not a corresponding reduction in the amount of
rent received.  The Rent Adjustment Commission shall promulgate regulations as
to what constitutes such “corresponding reduction”.	Rental Complex.  One or
more buildings, used in whole or in part for residential purposes, located on a
single lot, contiguous lots, or lots separated only by street or alley.  (Added
by Ord. No. 160,791, Eff. 2/10/86.)	Rental Units.  (Amended by Ord. No.
157,385, Eff. 1/24/83.)  All dwelling units, efficiency dwelling units, guest
rooms, and suites, as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code, and all housing
accommodations as defined in Government Code Section 12927, and duplexes and
condominiums in the City of Los Angeles, rented or offered for rent for living
or dwelling purposes, the land and buildings appurtenant thereto, and all
housing services, privileges, furnishings and facilities supplied in connection
with the use or occupancy thereof, including garage and parking facilities. 
(Sentence Amended by Ord. No. 170,445, Eff. 5/6/95, Oper. 7/5/95.)    This
term shall also include mobile homes, whether rent is paid for the mobile home
and the land upon which the mobile home is located, or rent is paid for the land
alone.  Further, it shall include recreational vehicles, as defined in
California Civil Code Section 799.29 if located in a mobile home park or
recreational vehicle park, whether rent is paid for the recreational vehicle and
the land upon which it is located, or rent is paid for the land alone. 
(Sentence Amended by Ord. No. 181,744, Eff. 7/15/11.)  The term shall not
include:	1.	Dwellings, one family, except where two or more dwelling units are
located on the same lot.  This exception shall not apply to duplexes or
condominiums.  (Amended by Ord. No. 170,445, Eff. 5/6/95, Oper.
7/5/95.)	2.	(Amended by Ord. No. 176,472, Eff. 3/26/05.)  Housing
accommodations in hotels, motels, inns, tourist homes and boarding and rooming
houses, provided that at such time as an accommodation has been occupied as the
primary residence of one or more of the same tenants for any period more than 30
days such accommodation shall become a rental unit subject to the provisions of
this chapter.  The computation of the 30 days shall include days in which the
tenant was required to:	(a)	move into a different guestroom or efficiency unit
before the expiration of 30 days occupancy; or	(b)	check out and re-register
before the expiration of 30 days occupancy if a purpose was to avoid application
of this chapter.Evidence that an occupant was required to check out and
re-register shall create a rebuttable presumption, which shall affect solely the
burden of producing evidence, that the housing accommodation is a rental unit
subject to the provisions of this chapter.	3.	A dwelling unit in a nonprofit
stock cooperative while occupied by a shareholder tenant of the nonprofit stock
cooperative.	4.	Housing accommodations in any hospital; state licensed community
care facility; convent; monastery; extended medical care facility; asylum;
fraternity or sorority house; or housing accommodations owned, operated or
managed by an institution of higher education, a high school, or an elementary
school for occupancy by its students.	5.	Housing accommodations owned and
operated by the Los Angeles City Housing Authority, or which a government unit,
agency or authority owns, operates, or manages and which are specifically
exempted from municipal rent regulation by state or federal law or
administrative regulation, or housing accommodations specifically exempted from
municipal rent regulation by state or federal law or administrative
regulation.  This exception shall not apply once the government ownership,
operation, management, regulation or rental assistance is discontinued.  This
exception shall not apply to rental units for which rental assistance is paid
pursuant to the Housing Choice Voucher Program codified at 24 CFR part 982, and
those units are subject to the provisions of this article to the fullest extent
allowed by law.  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,587, Eff. 7/5/06.)	6.	Housing
accommodations, located in a structure for which the first Certificate of
Occupancy was issued after October 1, 1978, are exempt from provisions of this
Chapter.  If the property was occupied for residential purposes prior to
October 1, 1978 and a Certificate of Occupancy for the subject building was
never issued or was not issued until after October 1, 1978, the housing
accommodation shall be subject to the provisions of this Chapter if relevant
documentation, such as a building permit, establishes that the building was
first occupied for residential purposes prior to October 1, 1978.  This
exception shall not apply to individual mobile home coaches, mobile home parks,
individual recreational vehicles or recreational vehicle parks.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 181,744, Eff. 7/15/11.)	7.	Luxury Housing Accommodations.  This
exemption shall only apply to housing accommodations which have been issued a
certificate from the Department indicating that it has been proven to the
Department’s satisfaction that the subject housing accommodations were rented
at the requisite rent levels on May 31, 1978.	8.	Substantial Renovation. 
Housing accommodations for which renovation work was started and completed on or
after September 1, 1980 which work cost at least $10,000 for a unit with no
bedrooms; $11,000 for a unit with one bedroom; $13,000 for a unit with two
bedrooms; $15,000 for a unit with three bedrooms; and $17,000 for a unit with
four bedrooms or more. This exemption shall apply only to rental units which
have submitted an application for a certification of exemption to the Department
prior to October 4, 1989, and which have been issued a certificate from the
Department indicating that it has been demonstrated to the satisfaction of the
Department that the requisite renovation work has been completed.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 165,251, Eff. 11/20/89.)	9.	(Amended by Ord. No. 181,744, Eff.
7/15/11.)  Affordable Housing Accommodations are housing accommodations with a
government imposed regulatory agreement that has been recorded with the Los
Angeles County Recorder, or which shall be recorded within six months of the
filing of an exemption pursuant to this Subdivision with the Department,
guaranteeing that the subject housing accommodations will be affordable to
either lower income or very low income households for a period of at least 55
years, with units affordable only to households with an income at 60 percent of
the Area Medium Income or less.  None of the subject housing accommodations
shall be affordable only to households with incomes greater than 60 percent of
the Area Medium Income, as these terms are defined by the U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development.  “Lower Income or very low income
households” is defined in accordance with California Health and Safety Code
Sections 50079.5 and 50105.	This exemption shall apply only to housing
accommodations which have been issued an affordable housing exemption by the
Department indicating satisfaction of the following conditions:	(1)	the subject
housing accommodations are only available to lower income or very low income
households with none of the subject accommodations affordable only to households
with income greater than 60% of Area Median Income;	(2)	rent levels conform to
the amounts set by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, or the
California Department of Housing and Community Development, as applicable, based
on the public funding source for the subject accommodations; except as
follows:	Annual rent increases shall be in accordance with LAMC Section 151.06
D. for any tenancies established prior to the recording of the government
imposed regulatory agreement where the tenant household has not received
permanent relocation assistance in accordance with the Uniform Relocation Act,
the California Relocation Assistance Act or LAMC Section 151.09 G., whichever is
applicable;	(3)	actions to recover possession of housing accommodations from a
tenant shall be limited to the grounds set forth in LAMC Section 151.09
A.;	(4)	the landlord shall comply with the provisions of the Tenant Habitability
Program, pursuant to Article 2 of this Chapter, if applicable;	(5)	relocation
assistance shall be provided to an eligible tenant household based on the
applicable provisions of the Uniform Relocation Act or the California Relocation
Assistance Act; or the amount set forth in LAMC Section 151.09 G., whichever is
greater.	The Department shall have the authority to revoke an exemption issued
pursuant to this Subdivision for failure to adhere to any of the conditions for
an exemption set forth in this Subdivision.	10.	Recreational vehicles which are
not occupied by a tenant who has continuously resided in the park for nine or
more months.  This exception shall not apply to a lot or space which becomes
vacant as a result of the park operator’s terminating the tenancy on grounds
other than those specified in Section 151.09 A. of this chapter.	11.	Housing
accommodations in limited-equity housing cooperatives, as defined in Health and
Safety Code Section 33007.5, when occupied by a member tenant of the
limited-equity housing cooperative.  However, if the cooperative acquired the
property pursuant to Government Code Section 54237(d), then all dwellings in the
limited-equity housing cooperative shall be excepted from this chapter. (Added
by Ord. No. 157,723, Eff. 7/1/83.)	12.	Any mobilehome park for which a permit to
operate is defined in Chapter 4 of Part 2.1 of Division 13 of the California
Health and Safety Code was first issued on or after the effective date of this
amendment (hereafter “existing park”).  If acreage is added to a mobilehome
park which park obtained a permit to operate prior to the effective date of this
amendment, then any site located on such additional acreage shall be exempt from
the provisions of this chapter.  Any new home sites created within the
boundaries of an existing park through increased density or elimination of open
space shall not be subject to this exception.  (Added by Ord. No. 160,791, Eff.
2/10/86.)	Seismic Work.  (Deleted by Ord. No. 181,744, Eff. 7/15/11.)	Tenant. 
A tenant, subtenant, lessee, sublessee or any other person entitled to use or
occupancy of a rental unit.	Tenant Habitability Plan.  A document, submitted by
a landlord to the Department, identifying any impact Primary Renovation Work and
Related Work will have on the habitability of a tenant’s permanent place of
residence and the steps the landlord will take to mitigate the impact on the
tenant and the tenant’s personal property during the period Primary Renovation
Work and Related Work are undertaken.  (Added by Ord. No. 176,544, Eff.
5/2/05.)	Unsafe Building or Structure.  (Added by Ord. No. 170,445, Eff.
5/6/95, Oper. 7/5/95.)  For the purposes of this chapter, the term “unsafe
building or structure” shall be as defined in the California Building Code
(Title 24, Part 2 California Code of Regulations, Section 203).  It is defined
as follows:	“Sec. 203.	“(a) General.  All buildings or structures regulated
by this code which are structurally unsafe or not provided with adequate egress,
or which constitute a fire hazard, or are otherwise dangerous to human life are,
for the purpose of this section, unsafe.  Any use of buildings or structures
constituting a hazard to safety, health or public welfare by reason of
inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, obsolescence, fire hazard, disaster,
damage or abandonment is, for the purpose of this section, an unsafe use. 
Parapet walls, cornices, spires, towers, tanks, statuary and other appendages or
structural members which are supported by, attached to, or a part of a building
and which are in deteriorated condition or otherwise unable to sustain the
design loads which are specified in this code are hereby designated as unsafe
building appendages.	“All such unsafe buildings, structures or appendages are
hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be abated by repair,
rehabilitation, demolition or removal in accordance with the procedures set
forth in the Dangerous Buildings Code or such alternate procedures as may have
been or as may be adopted by this jurisdiction.  As an alternative, the
building official, or other employee or official of this jurisdiction as
designated by the governing body, may institute any other appropriate action to
prevent, restrain, correct or abate the violation.	“(b)  Fire Hazard.  No
person, including but not limited to the state and its political subdivisions,
operating any occupancy subject to these regulations shall permit any fire
hazard, as defined in this section, to exist on premises under their control, or
fail to take immediate action or abate a fire hazard when requested to do so by
the enforcing agency.	“NOTE:	‘Fire hazard’ as used in these regulations
means any condition, arrangement or act which will increase, or may cause an
increase of the hazard or menace of fire to a greater degree than customarily
recognized as normal by persons in the public service of preventing, suppressing
or extinguishing fire; or which may obstruct, delay or hinder, or may become the
cause of obstruction, delay or hindrance to the prevention, suppression or
extinguishment of fire.”
