                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

TEMPORARY EVICTION CONTROLS AND RENT REDUCTIONS FOR MOBILE HOMES DAMAGED IN THE
JANUARY, 1994 EARTHQUAKE. (§ 151.20)

  TEMPORARY EVICTION CONTROLS AND RENT REDUCTIONS FOR MOBILE HOMES DAMAGED IN
THE JANUARY, 1994 EARTHQUAKE.
	(Added by Ord. No. 169,363, Eff. 3/1/94.)	A.	Notwithstanding any provision of
the Rent Stabilization Ordinance or any provision of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code to the contrary, the following provisions shall apply to any mobile home,
which is subject to the provisions of the City’s Rent Stabilization Ordinance,
rendered untenantable, as a result of the January 17, 1994 earthquake and its
aftermath:	The ground for eviction set forth in Section 151.09 A.1. (non-payment
of rent) of the Los Angeles Municipal Code shall not apply if a mobile home
within a mobile home park was made untenantable on or after January 17, 1994,
because of damage to utility-related facilities on a mobile home pad or a shut
off of any utility to the mobile home pad as a result of the earthquake and its
aftermath, where park management has the obligation to effect the necessary
repairs to the utility system or facilities.  A tenant is not required to pay
the rent otherwise allowed pursuant to the Rent Stabilization Ordinance for
those days that the utility was or is not provided.  Once the utility
facilities or services to the pad have been repaired, replaced or restored, the
tenant shall be required to pay the rent allowed pursuant to the Rent
Stabilization Ordinance for the period after that repair, replacement or
restoration.	B.	The provisions of this section shall remain in effect for a
period of 90 days from the effective date of the ordinance adding the section
and shall apply to any proceeding which has not resulted in a final judgment on
or before the effective date of that ordinance.  This section shall apply to
mobile homes, as provided in Section 151.02 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code,
regardless of whether rent is paid for the mobile home and the land upon which
the mobile home is located or rent is paid for the land alone.  The Rent
Adjustment Commission shall have the authority to promulgate any regulations or
guidelines it deems necessary to implement this amendment to the Los Angeles
Municipal Code.
