                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PAYMENT OF INTEREST ON SECURITY DEPOSITS. (§ 151.06.02)

  PAYMENT OF INTEREST ON SECURITY DEPOSITS.
	(Added by Ord. No. 166,368, Eff. 12/6/90.)	A.	Security deposit is defined in
Section 1950.5 of the California Civil Code.	B.	(Amended by Ord. No. 174,017,
Eff. 7/16/01.)  A landlord who is subject to the provisions of Section 1950.5
of the California Civil Code shall pay annually interest on all security
deposits held for at least one year for his or her tenants as
follows:	1.	(Amended by Ord. No. 175,020, Eff. 2/1/03.)  Beginning January 1,
2003, the landlord may determine the annual rate of interest by either of the
following methods:	(a)	Using the annual rate of interest established by the Rent
Adjustment Commission (RAC).  That rate shall be based on the average of the
interest rates on savings accounts paid on September 1 of the previous year, by
at least five Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) insured banks with
branches in Los Angeles.  RAC shall adopt the rate by November 30 of each year
and shall publish that rate in a newspaper of general circulation within one
week after it is established each year.  The interest rate established by the
RAC shall be the rate in effect from January 1 through December 31 of the
subsequent year.	(b)	Using the actual interest earned on each security deposit
account each year.  If the landlord chooses this method of determining the
amount of interest due at the time of payment of the security deposit interest,
the landlord shall provide the tenant with bank statements indicating the amount
of interest earned on the security deposit for that year.  In the event the
landlord fails to provide that information to the tenant at the time it
transmits payment of the interest to the tenant, the interest rate required to
be paid, shall be the rate set by RAC.	(c)	No interest shall accrue on security
deposits for the period of January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2002.	2.	The
annual interest rate shall be 2% simple interest per annum for tenants’
security deposits held during the period of January 1, 2001, through December
31, 2001.	3.	The annual interest rate shall be 5% simple interest per annum for
tenants’ security deposits held during the period of November 1, 1990, through
December 31, 2000.	4.	The Los Angeles Housing Department (LAHD) shall identify
the established interest rate in the annual rental unit registration billings
mailed to landlords.  LAHD shall publish the established interest rate in a
newspaper of general circulation.	C.	(Amended by Ord. No. 174,017, Eff.
7/16/01.)  Interest shall begin accruing on November 1, 1990, on a monthly
basis.  A tenant shall be given the unpaid accrued interest in the form of
either a direct payment or a credit against the tenant’s rent.  The landlord
shall choose between these two methods of payment and notify the tenant in
writing of his or her choice.  The landlord may elect to pay the accrued
interest on a monthly or yearly basis.	D.	Upon termination of tenancy, only the
tenant whose security deposit has been held for one year or more shall be
entitled to payment of any unpaid accumulated interest on the security
deposit.  Such payment shall be made at the same time and in the same manner as
required for return of security deposits in California Civil Code Section
1950.5(f).	E.	Upon termination of a landlord’s interest in a property, all
accumulated interest on security deposits shall be disposed of in the same
manner as required for security deposits by California Civil Code Sections
1950.5(g) and (h).	F.	Nothing herein shall preclude a landlord from exercising
his or her discretion in investing security deposits.	G.	In the event the
landlord fails to pay interest on the security deposit as provided in this
section, the tenant may bring an action for recovery of the amount owed in a
court of the appropriate jurisdiction including, but not limited to, small
claims court.	H.	The provisions of this section shall not govern mobile home
parks.
