                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DECLARATION OF PURPOSE. (§ 151.01)

  DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.	There is a shortage of decent, safe and sanitary
housing in the City of Los Angeles resulting in a critically low vacancy
factor.	Tenants displaced as a result of their inability to pay increased rents
must relocate but as a result of such housing shortage are unable to find
decent, safe and sanitary housing at affordable rent levels.  Aware of the
difficulty in finding decent housing, some tenants attempt to pay requested rent
increases, but as a consequence must expend less on other necessities of life. 
This situation has had a detrimental effect on substantial numbers of renters in
the City, especially creating hardships on senior citizens, persons on fixed
incomes and low and moderate income households.  This problem reached crisis
level in the summer of 1978 following the passage of Proposition 13.	At that
time, the Council of the City of Los Angeles conducted hearings and caused
studies to be made on the feasibility and desirability of various measures
designed to address the problems created by the housing shortage.	In August,
1978, pending development and adoption of measures designed to alleviate the
City’s housing crisis, Council adopted Ordinance No. 151,415 which temporarily
rolled back recently imposed rent increases, and prohibited most rent increases
on residential rental properties for six months. Ordinance No. 151,415 expires
on April 30, 1979.	This ordinance has successfully reduced the rate of rent
increases in the City, along with the concomitant hardships and displacements. 
However, a housing shortage still exists within the City of Los Angeles and
total deregulation of rents at this time would immediately lead to widespread
exorbitant rent increases, and recurrence of the crisis, problems and hardships
which existed prior to the adoption of the moratorium measure.	Therefore, it is
necessary and reasonable to regulate rents so as to safeguard tenants from
excessive rent increases, while at the same time providing landlords with just
and reasonable returns from their rental units. In order to assure compliance
with the provisions of this chapter violations of any of the provisions of this
chapter may be raised as affirmative defenses in unlawful detainer
proceedings.  (Amended by Ord. No. 166,130, Eff. 9/16/90.)
