                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

FILING OF APPLICATION FOR RENT ADJUSTMENTS, REQUESTS FOR HEARING, AND APPEALS.
(§ 151.14)

  FILING OF APPLICATION FOR RENT ADJUSTMENTS, REQUESTS FOR HEARING, AND
APPEALS.	A.	Filing Date.  (Amended by Ord. No. 165,251, Eff. 11/20/89.)  An
application for rent adjustment, request for hearing, appeal or re-rental
certificate shall be considered as filed on the date it has been completed in
accordance with the applicable rules and regulations, and received together with
any required filing fee by the Department. If at any time during the processing
of an application it is determined that an application has been improperly
prepared, or requires additional information not submitted in accordance with
the rules and regulations, the time limits specified within this chapter shall
be suspended and not continue to run until the application has been rectified or
the omitted information furnished upon written notification to the
applicant.	B.	Place of Filing.  Whenever the provisions of this chapter provide
that applications or requests for hearing or appeals be filed in the office of
the Department, such applications or requests for hearing or appeals may be
filed in any of the branch offices of the Department.	C.	An application fee
required under this section may be waived by the Department for any individual
who files a declaration stating that he or she annually earns no more than 50%
of the median income for the Los Angeles area. The declaration shall state the
above information is true and correct.  The median is to be determined by the
standards utilized by the Housing Authority of the City of Los Angeles acting
pursuant to HUD relations. (Amended by Ord. No. 160,791, Eff. 2/10/86.)	D.	If a
hearing officer determines, based on clear and convincing evidence, that an
applicant has willfully or knowingly with the intent to deceive, made or caused
to be made a false statement or representation, or knowingly failed to disclose
a material fact, in connection with any application under consideration by the
hearing officer, then the hearing officer may deny the application.  Any
determination by the hearing officer based on this subsection shall be
appealable to the Rent Adjustment Commission.  (Added by Ord. No. 160,791, Eff.
2/10/86.)	E.	For purposes of this chapter, if an application, request for appeal
or request for hearing is mailed to the Department, it is deemed to be received
as established by the date of the postmark affixed on an envelope properly
addressed to the Department.  (Added by Ord. No. 160,791, Eff. 2/10/86.)
