                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

HURRICANE KATRINA AND HURRICANE RITA TEMPORARY RELIEF PROGRAM. (§ 151.21)

  HURRICANE KATRINA AND HURRICANE RITA TEMPORARY RELIEF PROGRAM.
	(Added by Ord. No. 177,184, Eff. 12/23/05.)	A.	Purpose.  The purpose of this
Section 151.21 is to permit landlords to rent rental units subject to the
City’s Rent Stabilization Ordinance at below market rates for a temporary
period to persons displaced from their homes by Hurricane Katrina or Hurricane
Rita and to raise the rental rates at the end of the temporary
period.	B.	Definitions.  The following words and phrases, whenever used in this
section, shall be construed as defined in this section.  Words and phrases not
defined in this section shall be construed as defined in Section 151.02 of this
article, if defined there.	Displacee.  A person who was displaced from a
residence as a result of Hurricane Katrina or Hurricane Rita and who was issued
a registration number by FEMA because the person was affected by Hurricane
Katrina or Hurricane Rita.	Fair Market Value Rent.  The average rent as
determined by the Department for a rental unit based on the unit’s location
and size.  The Department shall make available to the public the schedule of
Fair Market Value Rent amounts.	FEMA.  The United States Federal Emergency
Management Agency.	Fixed Relief Period.  The length of time identified in a
Qualifying Relief Rental Agreement Form during which a landlord agrees to charge
as rent to a Displacee an amount not greater than seventy-five percent of the
applicable Fair Market Value Rent.  In no event shall the Fixed Relief Period
extend beyond December 31, 2006.	Increased Rental Rate.  Amount specified in a
Qualifying Relief Rental Agreement Form that a landlord may charge as rent after
expiration of a Fixed Relief Period.	Program.  The Hurricane Katrina and
Hurricane Rita Temporary Relief Program established by this Section
151.21.	Reduced Rental Rate.  Amount specified in a Qualifying Relief Rental
Agreement Form that will be charged for a Fixed Relief Period, after which the
rent may be increased to the Increased Rental Rate amount specified in the
Qualifying Relief Rental Agreement Form.  The Reduced Rental Rate must be not
greater than 75% of the applicable Fair Market Value Rent.	Rent Stabilization
Ordinance.  The City of Los Angeles Rent Stabilization Ordinance, codified at
Los Angeles Municipal Code Section 151.00 et seq.	C.	Rent Increases to
Displacees.  Notwithstanding the provisions of Subsection D. of Section 151.06
of this article, a landlord who files a Qualifying Relief Rental Agreement Form
pursuant to Subsection D. of this section may increase the rent to the Increased
Rental Rate at the expiration of the Fixed Relief Period.  After a landlord
increases the rent at the expiration of the Fixed Relief Period, regardless of
whether the increase is less than the amount authorized in the Qualifying Relief
Rental Agreement Form, the rent cannot be further increased without compliance
with the provisions of the Rent Stabilization Ordinance, including those
provided pursuant to Section 151.06.	D.	Qualifying Relief Rental Agreement
Form.  The provisions of this Section 151.21 shall apply only to leases for
which a Qualifying Relief Rental Agreement Form pursuant to the provisions of
this Subsection D. is filed with the Department.  Landlords who desire to
participate in this Program must file with the  Department at its Central
Regional Office located at 3550 Wilshire Boulevard, 15th Floor, Los Angeles CA
90010, a Qualifying Relief Rental Agreement Form that will be provided by the
Department.  The Form must contain, at a minimum, the following:	1.	A
description of the rental unit, including the address with zip code, the number
of bathrooms and bedrooms;	2.	Identification of amenities to be provided by the
landlord during the Fixed Relief Period, and amenities that will be provided by
the landlord after the Fixed Relief Period.  The identification of amenities
shall include whether the landlord will furnish the rental unit and which
utilities, if any, will be paid by the landlord;	3.	The Fair Market Value Rent
applicable to the rental unit;	4.	The Reduced Rental Rate that will be charged
during the Fixed Relief Period, and the Increased Rental Rate that the landlord
may charge at the end of the Fixed Relief Period;	5.	The registration number
issued by FEMA to the Displacee; and	6.	A statement that the Displacee may
terminate the lease upon thirty days notice and will not be liable for rent that
would otherwise be owed for the remainder of the term of the Fixed Relief Period
and the remainder of the lease, nor for damages resulting from termination prior
to expiration of the Fixed Relief Period and the lease.The completed Qualifying
Relief Rental Agreement Form must be signed by the Displacee and the landlord. 
The Department will not accept for filing any Form that does not contain the
information required by this subsection, that does not demonstrate that the
initial rent charged under the Program is not greater than 75% of the applicable
Fair Market Value Rent, and that is not signed by the Displacee and the
landlord.	E.	Effect of Failure to Increase Rent at the Expiration of Fixed
Relief Period.  A landlord may continue to rent to a Displacee at the Reduced
Rental Rate upon the expiration of a Fixed Relief Period.  A landlord who does
not increase the rental rate upon the expiration of the Fixed Relief Period may
impose one rent increase on or before December 31, 2006, provided that the new
rental amount does not exceed the Increased Rental Rate.  If, on January 1,
2007, the landlord has not increased the rent from the Reduced Rental Rate, the
rent cannot further be increased without compliance with the provisions of the
Rent Stabilization Ordinance, including those provided pursuant to Section
151.06.	F.	Ineligible Rental Units.  Rental Units may not be rented pursuant to
the provisions of this section if they are located in buildings:  (1) that have
been placed into the Rent Escrow Account Program pursuant to Section 162.00 et
seq., or Section 155.00 et seq., and the REAP placement is not yet terminated;
(2) for which there is an outstanding order or notice to comply, correct or
abate a condition or violation issued by an Enforcement Agency as defined in
Section 162.02; or (3) that contain a rental unit that the Department has
determined is being rented in violation of the Rent Stabilization Ordinance, and
the Department has notified the landlord in writing of that
determination.	G.	Termination of Program.  Effective January 1, 2007, rent can
be increased only in compliance with the provisions of the Rent Stabilization
Ordinance, including the provisions of Section 151.06.	H.	Authority of
Department to Administer Program.  The Department is authorized to administer
the Program, and may develop procedures and regulations to assist in the
administration.  The Department may require the landlord to provide notice to
Displacees on forms provided by the Department, and may require the landlord to
file documents other than the Qualifying Relief Rental Agreement Form, including
documents issued by FEMA identifying the Displacee’s FEMA registration
number.  Nothing in this Subsection H. is intended to limit the authority of
the Department to administer the Program.
