                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

THE RENT ADJUSTMENT COMMISSION. (§ 151.03)

  THE RENT ADJUSTMENT COMMISSION.	A.	Creation and Organization of the Rent
Adjustment Commission. (Amended by Ord. No. 154,237, Eff. 8/30/80, Oper.
9/1/80.)  There is hereby created and established a commission to be known as
the “Rent Adjustment Commission of the City of Los Angeles”.  The
Commission shall consist of seven members comprised of individuals who are
neither landlords nor tenants of residential rental property.  Each member
shall be appointed and may be removed in accordance with Charter Section 502. 
If at any time during the term of a Commission member, such member should become
a landlord or tenant of residential rental property, the office of that member
shall immediately become vacant and a new appointment be made thereto.  (Para.
Amended by Ord. No. 173,035, Eff. 2/24/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)	The term of office of
each member of the Commission shall be four years.  The Commission shall elect
one of its members chairperson and vice-chair, which officers shall hold office
one year and until their successors are elected.  (Amended by Ord. No. 156,597,
Eff. 5/20/82.)	All members of the Commission shall be entitled to vote. Four
members shall constitute a quorum for purposes of conducting a meeting.  The
decisions of the Commission shall be determined by a majority vote of the
members present.  Every three months the Commission shall render to the City
Council a written report of its activities pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter along with such comments and recommendations as it may choose to make.
The Commission shall meet as often as necessary to perform its duties.  Each
member shall be paid $50 per Commission meeting attended, and $50 per day for
each day the member sits as a member of an appeals board, not to exceed $750 per
month, and may receive reimbursement for actual expenses incurred in the course
and scope of the member’s duties to the extent that the City Council has
appropriated funds for such purpose.  Compensation shall not be paid for more
than one meeting per day.	B.	Responsibilities of the Commission.  The
Commission shall be responsible for carrying out the provisions of this
chapter.	It shall have the authority to issue orders and promulgate policies,
rules and regulations to effectuate the purposes of this chapter.  All such
rules and regulations shall be published once in a daily newspaper of general
circulation in the City of Los Angeles, and shall take effect upon such
publication.	It may make such studies and investigations, conduct such hearings,
and obtain such information as it deems necessary to promulgate, administer and
enforce any regulation, rule or order adopted pursuant to this chapter.	C.	The
General Manager of the Los Angeles Housing Department shall designate Department
employees to furnish staff support to the Commission.  (Amended by Ord. No.
168,842, Eff. 7/24/93.)
