                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ELLIS ACT PROVISIONS – RE-RENTAL RIGHTS OF DISPLACED TENANTS. (§ 151.27)

  ELLIS ACT PROVISIONS – RE-RENTAL RIGHTS OF DISPLACED TENANTS.
	(Added by Ord. No. 177,901, Eff. 9/29/06.)	If a landlord desires to offer for
rent or lease a rental unit that was the subject of a Notice of Intent to
Withdraw pursuant to the provisions of Subsection A. of Section 151.23, the
following regulations apply:	A.	A landlord who offers accommodations for rent or
lease within two years from the date of withdrawal shall first offer to rent or
lease each unit to the tenant or tenants displaced from that unit by the
withdrawal, provided that the tenant or tenants advised the landlord in writing
within 30 days of displacement of his or her desire to consider an offer to
renew the tenancy, and provided the landlord with an address to which that offer
is to be directed.  That tenant or tenants may advise the landlord at any time
during the period of eligibility of a change of address to which an offer is to
be directed.	If a landlord again offers accommodations for rent or lease
pursuant to the provisions of this subsection, and the tenant or lessee has
advised the landlord pursuant to this subsection of a desire to consider an
offer to renew the tenancy, then the landlord shall offer to reinstitute a
rental agreement or lease on terms permitted by law to that displaced tenant or
lessee.	A landlord who re-offers rental or lease accommodations to a previously
displaced tenant pursuant to the provisions of this subsection shall deposit the
offer in the United States mail, by registered or certified mail with postage
prepaid, addressed to the displaced tenant or tenants at the address furnished
to the landlord as provided in this subsection, and shall describe the terms of
the offer.  The displaced tenant or tenants shall have 30 days from the deposit
of the offer in the mail to accept the offer by personal delivery of that
acceptance or by deposit of the acceptance in the United States mail by
registered or certified mail with postage prepaid.	B.	A landlord who offers
accommodations for rent or lease not exceeding five years from the date of
withdrawal shall first offer to rent or lease each unit to the tenant or tenants
displaced from that accommodation by the withdrawal, provided that the tenant or
tenants requests the offer in writing within 30 days after the landlord has
notified the Department of an intention to offer the accommodations again for
residential rent or lease pursuant to the requirements of Section 151.24.  The
landlord shall be liable to any tenant or tenants who were displaced by that
action for failure to comply with this subsection, for punitive damages in an
amount that does not exceed the contract rent for six months. 
