                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ELLIS ACT PROVISIONS – REQUIRED NOTICE. (§ 151.23)

  ELLIS ACT PROVISIONS – REQUIRED NOTICE.
	(Added by Ord. No. 177,901, Eff. 9/29/06.)	Notwithstanding any provision of
this chapter to the contrary, if a landlord desires to demolish rental units
subject to the Rent Stabilization Ordinance, or otherwise withdraw the units
from rental housing use, then the following provisions shall apply:	A.	Notice of
Intent to Withdraw.  The landlord shall notify the Department of an intention
to withdraw a rental unit from rental housing use.  This Notice of Intent to
Withdraw shall contain the following:  statements, under penalty of perjury on
the form and in the number prescribed by the Department, stating that the
landlord intends to evict in order to demolish the rental unit or to remove the
rental unit from rental housing use, the address or location of the rental unit,
the number of rental units to be demolished or removed from rental housing use,
the names of the tenants of each rental unit, the date on which the rental unit
will be withdrawn from rental housing use and the rent applicable to that rental
unit.	The Department shall have the authority to promulgate forms and procedures
to assist in the implementation of this subdivision.	B.	Recordation of
Non-Confidential Memorandum and Extension of the Date of Withdrawal from Rental
Housing Use.  The landlord shall record with the County Recorder a memorandum
summarizing the provisions of the Notice of Intent to Withdraw, other than those
provisions that are confidential.  Information respecting the name or names of
the tenants, the rent applicable to any rental unit, and the total number of
units is confidential information and shall be treated as confidential
information by the Department for purposes of the Information Practices Act of
1977, as contained in Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 1798) of Title 1.8 of
Part 4 of Division 3 of the Civil Code.	The landlord shall submit a copy of the
memorandum filed with the County Recorder to the Department concurrently with
the Notice of Intent to Withdraw, with a certification that actions have been
initiated as required by law to terminate any existing tenancies.	The date on
which the rental units are to be withdrawn from rental housing use shall be at
least 120 days from the date of the delivery to the Department in person or by
first-class mail of the Notice of Intent to Withdraw.	If the tenant is at least
62 years of age or disabled (as defined in Government Code Section 12955.3) and
has lived in his or her accommodations for at least one year prior to the date
of delivery to the Department of the Notice of Intent to Withdraw pursuant to
Subsection A. of this section, then the date of withdrawal of the accommodations
of that tenant shall be extended to one year after the date of delivery of that
Notice to the Department.  This extension shall take place, if and only if, the
tenant gives written notice of his or her entitlement to an extension to the
landlord within 60 days of the date of delivery to the Department of the Notice
of Intent to Withdraw.  In that situation, the following provisions shall
apply:	1.	The tenancy shall be continued on the same terms and conditions as
existed on the date of delivery to the Department of the Notice of Intent to
Withdraw, subject to any adjustments otherwise available under the Rent
Stabilization Ordinance.	2.	No party shall be relieved of the duty to perform
any obligation under the lease or rental agreement.	3.	The landlord may elect to
extend the date of withdrawal on any other rental units up to one year after the
date of delivery to the Department of the Notice of Intent to Withdraw, subject
to Subparagraphs 1. and 2. 	4.	Within 30 days of the notification by the tenant
to the landlord of his or her entitlement to an extension, the landlord shall
give written notice to the Department of the claim that the tenant is entitled
to stay in the accommodations for one year after the date of delivery to the
Department of the Notice of Intent to Withdraw.	5.	Within 90 days of the date of
delivery to the Department of the Notice of Intent to Withdraw, the landlord
shall give written notice to the Department and the affected tenant of the
landlord’s election to extend the date of withdrawal and the new date of
withdrawal under Subparagraph 3.	C.	Notice to the Tenants of Pending
Withdrawal.  Within five days of delivery to the Department of the Notice of
Intent to Withdraw with the certification required under Subsection B. of this
section, and a copy of the memorandum recorded by the County Recorder, the
landlord shall notify, by delivery in person or by first-class mail, each
affected tenant of the following:	1.	That the Department has been notified
pursuant to Subsection A., including the date of the delivery to the Department
of the Notice of Intent to Withdraw;	2.	That the Notice delivered to the
Department specified the name and the amount of rent paid by the tenant as an
occupant of the accommodations;	3.	The amount of rent the landlord specified in
the notice to the Department;	4.	Notice to the tenant of his or her rights under
Paragraph (3) of Subdivision (b) of Government Code Section 7060.2;
and	5.	Notice to the tenant stating the following:	(a)	If the tenant is at least
62 years of age or disabled, and has lived in his or her accommodations for at
least one year prior to the date of delivery to the Department of the Notice of
Intent to Withdraw, then the tenancy shall be extended to one year after the
date of delivery to the Department of the Notice of Intent to Withdraw, provided
that the tenant gives written notice of his or her entitlement to the landlord
within 60 days of the date of delivery to the Department of the Notice of Intent
to Withdraw;	(b)	The extended tenancy shall be continued on the same terms and
conditions as existed on the date of delivery to the Department of the Notice of
Intent to Withdraw, subject to any adjustments otherwise available under the
Rent Stabilization Ordinance; and	(c)	No party shall be relieved of the duty to
perform any obligation under the lease or rental agreement during the extended
tenancy.
