                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

AUTOMATIC ADJUSTMENTS. (§ 151.06)

  AUTOMATIC ADJUSTMENTS.
	(Title Amended by Ord. No. 153,552, Eff. 5/1/80; Section Amended by Ord. No.
154,237, Eff. 8/30/80, Oper. 9/1/80.)	The maximum rent or maximum adjusted rent
for a rental unit may be increased without permission of the Rent Adjustment
Commission or the Department, as follows:	A.	For a rental unit which has not had
a rent increase since May 31, 1976 (other than one imposed pursuant to Section
3B(5) or (6) of Ordinance No. 151,415, as amended and/or Section 151.07 of this
chapter:	Prior to any increase pursuant to Subsection D. of the section, a
landlord may increase the maximum rent by an amount not to exceed 19%, but if
the landlord pays all the costs of electricity and/or gas services for a rental
unit, then the maximum or maximum adjusted rent may be increased an additional
1% for each such service paid by the landlord.  Thereafter, the rent may be
adjusted automatically only in accordance with Subsections C. and D.	B.	For a
rental unit which has not had a rent increase since May 31, 1977 (other than one
imposed pursuant to Section 3B(5) or (6) of Ordinance No. 151,415, as amended,
and/or Section 151.07 of this chapter) but which did have a rent increase within
one year prior to that date:	Prior to an increase pursuant to Subsection D. of
this section, a landlord may increase the maximum rent by an amount not to
exceed 13%, but if the landlord pays all the costs of electricity and/or gas
services for a rental unit, then the maximum or maximum adjusted rent may be
increased an additional 1% for each such service paid by the landlord. 
Thereafter, the rent may be adjusted automatically only in accordance with
Subsections C. and D. below.	C.	(Amended by Ord. No. 181,744, Eff. 7/15/11.) 
Where all of the tenants have vacated a rental unit subject to the provisions of
this Article, the following provisions apply:	1.	The landlord may increase the
maximum rent or maximum adjusted rent to any amount upon re-rental of the unit
in any of the following circumstances:	(a)	the rental unit was vacated
voluntarily.	(b)	the rental unit was vacated as a result of the landlord’s
termination of tenancy pursuant to Subdivisions 1., 2., 9. or 13. of Subsection
A. of Section 151.09 of this Code.	(c)	the rental unit was vacated as a result
of the landlord’s termination of tenancy pursuant to Subdivisions 3. or 4. of
Subsection A. of Section 151.09 of this Code, and	i.	The landlord served a
written notice required to terminate tenancy on the tenant prior to the City
Attorney commencing a court action against the tenant pursuant to Section 47.50
of this Code; and	ii.	The eviction or termination of tenancy is based upon
information provided by a law enforcement or prosecution agency that the tenant
is committing or permitting to exist any gang-related crime, violent crime,
unlawful weapon or ammunition crime, threat of violent crime, illegal drug
activity or drug-related nuisance as those terms are defined in Section 47.50 of
this Code.  Thereafter, so long as the rental unit continues to be rented to
one or more of the same persons, no other rent increase shall be imposed
pursuant to this Subsection.	2.	The landlord may only offer and rent the rental
unit at the lawful rent in effect at the time of the most recent termination of
tenancy plus annual adjustments available under Section 151.06 of this Article
in any of the following circumstances:	(a)	The rental unit is vacated as a
result of the termination of the Housing Assistance Payment Contract between the
landlord and the Housing Authority of the City of Los Angeles because of the
landlord’s failure to comply with the contractual obligations required by
law.	(b)	The rental unit was vacated as a result of the landlord’s termination
of tenancy pursuant to Subdivision 5., 6., 7., 8., 10., 11. or 12. of Subsection
A. of Section 151.09 of this Code, or pursuant to Subdivisions 3. or 4. of
Subsection A. of Section 151.09 of this Code except as otherwise provided under
Subparagraph c. of Subdivision 1. of Subsection C. of this Section;	(c)	The
rental unit was vacated as a result of the landlord creating an unreasonable
interference with the tenant’s comfort, safety or enjoyment of the rental
unit;	(d)	The rental unit is vacated voluntarily by a tenant who was the next
tenant after an eviction pursuant to Subdivision 8. of Subsection A. of Section
151.09 of this Code;	(e)	The rental unit is vacated as a result of the
termination of the regulation of the rental unit under any local, state or
federal program;	(f)	The rental unit is the subject of a notice of noncompliance
sent to the Franchise Tax Board pursuant to Section 17274 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, and the violations that were the subject of the notice have not
been corrected;	(g)	The rental unit is the subject of a notice of acceptance
into the Rent Escrow Account Program issued pursuant to Section 162.00 et seq.
of this Code, and the conditions that caused the issuance of the notice have not
been corrected;	(h)	The rental unit is the subject of a criminal conviction
related to the landlord’s failure to comply with a citation or order issued by
the Los Angeles Housing Department, Los Angeles Department of Building and
Safety, Los Angeles Fire Department, or Department of Health with respect to the
subject rental unit, and the conditions that caused the conviction have not been
corrected.	3.	If the rental unit is vacated as a result of a removal of the
rental unit from rental housing use pursuant to Subdivision 10. of Subsection A.
of Section 151.09 of this Code, the landlord must comply with the requirements
of Sections 151.22 through 151.28 of this Code, including applicable limitations
on the amount of rent.	D.	(Amended by Ord. No. 156,597, Eff. 5/20/82, Oper.
5/15/82.)  For a rental unit which at any time on or after the operative date
of this chapter has not had a rent increase for a period of twelve consecutive
months or more (other than one lawfully imposed pursuant to Section 3B(5) or (6)
of Ordinance No. 151,415, as amended, and/or pursuant to Subsection E. of this
section and/or pursuant to Section 151.07 of this chapter:	The maximum rent or
maximum adjusted rent may be increased in an amount based on the Consumer Price
Index – All Urban Consumers averaged for the twelve (12) month period ending
September 30, of each year, as determined and published by the Department on or
before May 30, of each year, pursuant to Section 151.07 A.6. of this chapter.
This annual adjustment may be applied to any annual rent increase which first
becomes effective on or before July 1, through June 30, of each year.  If the
landlord pays all the costs of electricity and/or gas services for a rental unit
then the maximum rent or maximum adjusted rent may be increased an additional
one percent (1%) for each such service paid by the landlord, not to exceed a
total of two percent (2%).  If a rent increase had been imposed pursuant to
Subsection A., B., C. or F.1., of this section, then no rent increase may be
imposed pursuant to this subsection until twelve (12) consecutive months or more
have elapsed since such rent increase.  (Amended by Ord. No. 159,908, Eff.
6/30/85 Oper. 7/1/85.)	EXCEPTION:  (Amended by Ord. No. 170,445, Eff. 5/6/95,
Oper. 7/5/95.)	This subsection shall not apply in the following
circumstances:	If the rental unit is the subject of a notice of noncompliance
sent to the Franchise Tax Board pursuant to Section 17274 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, and the violations that were the subject of the Notice have not
been corrected; or	If the rental unit is the subject of a notice of rent
reduction or a Notice of Acceptance issued pursuant to this chapter, and the
conditions that caused the placement have not been corrected; or	If the rental
unit is the subject of a criminal conviction related to the landlord’s failure
to comply with a citation or order issued by the Department of Building and
Safety, Fire Department, or Department of Health with respect to the subject
rental unit, and the conditions that caused the conviction have not been
corrected.	E.	(Amended by Ord. No. 154,808, Eff. 2/13/81.)  For a rental unit
which had an automatic rent adjustment between May 1, 1980 and August 31, 1980,
inclusive, and for which the landlord pays all the costs of electricity and/or
gas services for a rental unit:	The maximum rent or maximum adjusted rent may be
increased 1% for each such service paid by the landlord.  A landlord may not
increase rent pursuant to this subsection on or after May 1, 1981.	F.	(Added by
Ord. No. 158,891, Eff. 6/4/84.)  For a rental unit, which is the site within a
mobilehome park (hereafter “site”) on which a mobilehome is located and is
vacated by all the tenants after the operative date of this
subsection;	1.	Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, if the
mobilehome on the site is vacated voluntarily or as a result of an eviction or
termination of tenancy based on one or more of the grounds described in Section
151.09 A.1., A.2. or A.9., and the mobilehome is permanently removed from the
site, then the maximum rent or maximum adjusted rent may be increased to any
amount upon the re-rental of the site.  Thereafter, as long as the site
continues to be rented to one or more of the same persons, no other rent
increase shall be imposed pursuant to this subdivision.	However, this
subdivision shall not apply in the following circumstances:	a.	If the mobilehome
has been temporarily removed for repairs; or	b.	If the mobilehome has been
replaced with a new mobilehome that one or more of the same tenants will
occupy.	2.	If the site is voluntarily vacated by all the tenants as a result of
a sale of the mobilehome, and the mobilehome is not removed from the site, then
the maximum rent or maximum adjusted rent may be increased by an amount not to
exceed the rent on any existing comparable site in the park, or ten percent
(10%), whichever is the lower.  A comparable site for the purposes of this
subdivision shall be a site within the same park which has a mobilehome located
on it which is substantially the same size (single, double or triple wide) as
the mobilehome that was sold. Thereafter, as long as the site continues to be
rented to one or more of the same persons, no other rent increase shall be
imposed pursuant to this subdivision.  The rent may only be increased pursuant
to this subdivision once in any twelve consecutive month period.	G.	(Amended by
Ord. No. 181,744, Eff. 7/15/11.)  For a rental unit which has an additional
tenant joining the occupants of the rental unit thereby resulting in an increase
in the number of tenants existing at the inception of the tenancy:	(a)	The 
landlord may increase the maximum rent or maximum adjusted rent by an amount not
to exceed 10% for each additional tenant that joins the occupants of the rental
unit, except as follows:	(i)	This Subsection shall not apply if the landlord had
actual or constructive knowledge of the additional tenant’s occupancy of the
rental unit for more than 60 days and has failed to notify the tenant of the
increase pursuant to this Subsection;	(ii)	If the additional tenant joined the
occupants of the rental unit prior to the effective date of this amendment and
the landlord had actual or constructive knowledge of the additional tenant’s
occupancy of the rental unit prior to the effective date of this amendment, the
landlord shall not be able to increase the rent pursuant to this Subsection
unless the landlord had notified the tenant of the increase within 60 days of
the effective date of this amendment;	(iii)	This Subsection shall not apply for
the first minor dependent child (or first minor dependent children of a multiple
birth) added to an existing tenancy.	(b)	The rental unit shall not be eligible
for a rent increase until the additional tenant has maintained residence in the
rental unit for a minimum of thirty consecutive days.
