                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

AUTHORITY OF COMMISSION TO REGULATE BY CLASS. (§ 151.08)

  AUTHORITY OF COMMISSION TO REGULATE BY CLASS.	A.	In addition to the authority
contained in Section 151.07, the Rent Adjustment Commission may make such
adjustments, either upward or downward, of the maximum rent or maximum adjusted
rent for any class of rental units as it determines are appropriate to carry out
the purposes of this chapter.  For the purposes of this section, the phrase
“class of rental units” may include all rental units or certain categories
of rental units based on such common characteristics as the Commission may
determine, including size, age, construction, rent, or geographic area.	B.	The
Commission shall promulgate regulations on what constitutes corresponding
reductions in rents in those instances where there is a reduction of housing
services, and on permissible rent increases where a rental unit regularly
experiences a seasonal fluctuation in rents.	C.	For the purpose of adjusting
rents under the provisions of this section, the Commission may promulgate by
regulation a schedule of standards for permissible rental increases, or required
decreases related to the improvement, reduction, or deterioration in housing
services or facilities, or to increases or decreases in operating expenses and
taxes.  A decrease in operating expenses shall include a reclassification of
the rate of the sewer service charge from commercial rates to residential rates
for master metered mobilehome park residents.  (Amended by Ord. No. 168,353,
Eff. 1/3/93.)	D.	The Commission may promulgate regulations extending the
amortization period for rent adjustments granted by the Department pursuant to
Section 151.07 A. of this chapter, where the capital improvement and/or
rehabilitation work has been funded or subsidized through a federal, state or
City housing program.  (Added by Ord. No. 156,597, Eff. 5/20/82, Oper.
5/15/82.)	E.	The Commission shall promulgate regulations to determine the
appropriate maximum adjusted rent on a rental unit when the tenant of a rental
unit was, but no longer is, the resident manager, and when a rental unit,
formerly occupied by a resident manager, is offered for rent to another
person.  (Amended by Ord. No. 156,597, Eff. 5/20/82, Oper. 5/15/82.)
