                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

AUTHORITY OF THE DEPARTMENT AND THE COMMISSION TO GRANT INDIVIDUAL RENT
ADJUSTMENTS. (§ 151.07)

  AUTHORITY OF THE DEPARTMENT AND THE COMMISSION TO GRANT INDIVIDUAL RENT
ADJUSTMENTS.	A.	Authority of the Department.	1.	The Department, in accordance
with such regulations and guidelines as the Commission may establish, shall have
the authority to grant adjustments in the rent for a rental unit or units
located in the same housing complex upon receipt of an application for an
adjustment filed by the landlord of the unit or units if it finds that one or
more of the grounds set forth in this Subdivision exist.  Nothing in this
Section shall prevent the Department from granting rent adjustments under more
than one provision of this Section, provided the rent adjustments are for
different work or improvements.  The Department shall not grant a rent
adjustment for a rental unit under more than one provision of this Section for
the same work or improvement.  The Department shall not process any
applications for rent adjustments under this Section if the landlord has not
paid all outstanding fees imposed pursuant to Section 151.05, Section 161.352
and  Section 161.901 of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,744, Eff.
7/15/11.)	a.	(Amended by Ord. No. 165,251, Eff. 11/20/89.)  That on or after
April 1, 1978, the landlord has completed a capital improvement with respect to
a rental unit and has not increased the rent to reflect the cost of such
improvement. If the Department so finds, the landlord shall be entitled to a
permanent monthly rent increase of 1/60th the average per unit capital
improvement cost; provided, however, any rent adjustment for a capital
improvement granted by the Department between February 13, 1981, and May 31,
1982, shall terminate after five (5) years.	Except that, for any capital
improvement work for which a rent increase application is filed with the
Department on or after October 1, 1989 the landlord shall only be entitled to a
temporary monthly rent increase of 1/60th of fifty percent (50%) of the average
per unit capital improvement cost for a period not to exceed six (6) years.	This
temporary monthly surcharge shall not exceed $55.00 per month for each rental
unit unless agreed upon in writing by a landlord and a tenant. If the surcharge,
as calculated under the above formula, would exceed $55.00 per month, then the
surcharge period of six (6) years may be extended until the allowable capital
improvement expenses are recovered. This surcharge shall not be included as part
of the Maximum Adjusted Rent for purposes of calculating the automatic rent
adjustment pursuant to Section 151.06 D.	Any capital improvement rent increase
or surcharge approved by the Department shall terminate if the Department
determines that there has been a complete failure of a capital improvement. The
Commission may adopt regulations to implement this provision.	For the purposes
of this provision, seismic work shall not be eligible as a capital
improvement.  (Added by Ord. No. 165,501, Eff. 3/23/90.)	EXCEPTION:  (Added by
Ord. No. 170,445, Eff. 5/6/95, Oper. 7/5/95.)	This paragraph shall not apply in
the following circumstances:	If the rental unit is the subject of a notice of
noncompliance sent to the Franchise Tax Board pursuant to Section 17274 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, and the work is to correct the violations that were
the subject of the Notice.	If the rental unit is the subject of a notice of rent
reduction or a notice of acceptance into the Rent Escrow Account Program issued
pursuant to Section 162.00 et seq. of this Code, and the work is to correct the
conditions that caused the placement.  (Amended by Ord. No. 176,544, Eff.
5/2/05.)	If the rental unit is the subject of a criminal conviction related to
the landlord’s failure to comply with a citation or order issued by the
Department, the Department of Building and Safety, Fire Department, or
Department of Health with respect to the subject rental unit, and the work is to
correct the conditions that caused the conviction.  (Amended by Ord. No.
176,544, Eff. 5/2/05.)	b.	(Amended by Ord. No. 172,410, Eff. 2/20/99.)  That on
or after April 1, 1978, the landlord has completed rehabilitation work with
respect to a rental unit and has not increased the rent to reflect the cost of
the improvement.  If the Department so finds, the landlord shall be entitled to
a permanent monthly rent increase of 1/60th of the average per unit
rehabilitation cost; provided, however, any rehabilitation work begun prior to
June 1, 1982, shall be entitled to rent increases of 1/36 of the average per
unit rehabilitation cost.  Moreover, any rental adjustment for rehabilitation
work granted by the Department between February 13, 1981 and May 31, 1982, shall
terminate after 3 years.	Except that, for any rehabilitation work for which a
rent increase application is filed with the Department on or after January 1,
1999, the landlord shall only be entitled to a temporary monthly rent increase
of 1/60th of the average per unit rehabilitation cost for a period not to exceed
five years, provided, however, where the landlord has obtained a rehabilitation
loan, the landlord shall only be entitled to a temporary monthly rent increase
amortized over the life of the loan which is calculated based only on the
loan’s principal.	This temporary monthly surcharge shall not exceed $75.00 per
month or 10% of the Maximum Adjusted Rent, whichever is less, for each rental
unit unless agreed upon in writing by a landlord and a tenant.  If the
surcharge, as calculated under the above formula, would exceed $75.00 per month
or 10% of the Maximum Adjusted Rent, whichever is less, then the surcharge
period of five years may be extended until the allowable rehabilitation expenses
are recovered.  If the landlord receives a loan made with public funds to do
the rehabilitation work, and that loan allows for deferment of the loan
repayment, the surcharge shall also be deferred for the same amount of time. 
This surcharge shall not be included as part of the Maximum Adjusted Rent for
purposes of calculating the automatic rent adjustment pursuant to Section 151.06
D.	Any rehabilitation rent increase or surcharge approved by the Department
shall terminate if the Department determines that there has been a complete
failure of the rehabilitation work.  The Commission may adopt regulations to
implement this provision.	For the purposes of this Paragraph, work required for
compliance with Section 91.8805 of this Code shall not be eligible as
rehabilitation work.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,744, Eff. 7/15/11.)	c.	(Repealed
by Ord. No. 181,744, Eff. 7/15/11.)	d.	(Added by Ord. No. 176,544, Eff.
5/2/05.)  That on or after the effective date of this amendment, the landlord
has completed Primary Renovation Work and any Related Work in conformance with a
Tenant Habitability Plan accepted by the Department and has not increased the
rent to reflect the cost of such improvement.  For the purposes of this
provision, any portion of the Primary Renovation Work and Related Work paid for
with public funds is not eligible for this monthly rent increase until the
landlord is immediately obligated to repay the public funds.	If the Department
so finds, the landlord shall be entitled to a permanent monthly rent increase
that shall not exceed the lesser of:	(i)	100% of the Average Per Unit Primary
Renovation Work Cost amortized in accordance with a term schedule established by
the Commission and an interest rate corresponding to the monthly composite rate
for average yields from the sale of ten-year constant maturity U.S. government
securities plus one full percentage point; or	(ii)	10% of the Maximum Adjusted
Rent at the time an application for a rent increase was filed.	The maximum 10%
rent increase permissible under this provision may be imposed no more than once
during the tenancy of any tenant household with an annual income at or below 80%
of the Area Median Income as established by the U.S. Department of Housing and
Urban Development for the Los Angeles-Long Beach primary metropolitan
statistical area.  For all other tenants, the Commission may promulgate
regulations with respect to the number of times during any tenancy that the
maximum 10% rent increase may be imposed.	For the purposes of this provision,
costs associated with Primary Renovation Work shall include the documented
incurred costs for Primary Renovation Work, Related Work, and temporary
relocation of tenants undertaken in accordance with an accepted Tenant
Habitability Plan.	Any rent increase granted pursuant to this provision shall be
imposed in two equal increments over a two-year period.  Upon receipt of the
Department’s approval of a primary renovation rent increase, the landlord may
impose the first increment after providing notice to each affected tenant
pursuant to Section 827 of the California Civil Code.  The second increment may
be imposed no earlier than 12 calendar months after the first increment is
imposed and after providing notice to each affected tenant pursuant to Section
827 of the California Civil Code.	EXCEPTION:	This paragraph shall not apply in
the following circumstances:	If the rental unit is the subject of a notice of
noncompliance sent to the Franchise Tax Board pursuant to Section 17274 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, and the work is to correct the violations that were
the subject of the Notice.	If the rental unit is the subject of a notice of rent
reduction or a Notice of Acceptance into the Rent Escrow Account Program issued
pursuant to Section 162.00 et seq. of this Code, and the work is to correct the
conditions that caused the placement.	If the rental unit is the subject of a
criminal conviction related to the landlord’s failure to comply with a
citation or order issued by the Department, the Department of Building and
Safety, Fire Department, or Department of Health with respect to the subject
rental unit, and the work is to correct the conditions that caused the
conviction.	If the rental unit is the subject of a citation or order from a
government agency to abate hazardous materials and the citation or order is
issued before the acceptance of a Tenant Habitability Plan by the
Department.	2.	Procedures for Departmental Review of Adjustment
Requests.	a.	Applications.  An application for a rent adjustment under this
subsection shall be made within twelve months after the completion of the
work.  The application shall be filed with the Department upon a form and with
the number of copies prescribed by the Department and shall include, among other
things, the addresses and unit numbers of the unit or units for which an
adjustment was requested.  If the rent adjustment request is the result of the
same capital improvement, Primary Renovation Work, seismic work, or
rehabilitation work, the application may include all rental units in a housing
complex for which an application for a rent increase is filed.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 176,544, Eff. 5/2/05.)	The applicant shall produce at the request of
the Department such records, receipts or reports as the Department may deem
necessary to make a determination on the adjustment request.  Failure to
produce requested items shall be sufficient basis to terminate the rent
adjustment proceedings.  All applications shall be accompanied by a declaration
stating that the above information is true and correct.	An application for a
rent adjustment under this subsection shall be accompanied by a $25.00 filing
fee.  The landlord shall not recover this filing fee from any tenant.  The
requirement to pay this fee shall not apply to the first application for the
housing complex made by a landlord within a calendar year pursuant to this
subsection.	b.	Notice.  Upon receipt of an adjustment application, the
Department shall notify the tenant or tenants of the subject unit or units by
mail of the receipt of such application, the amount of the requested rent
increase, the landlord’s justification for the request, a tenant’s right to
submit written objections to the adjustment request within 10 days of the date
of mailing such notice, and of the address to which the objections may be mailed
or delivered.	c.	The Department shall, within 45 days of the receipt of a
completed application, make a determination on the application for rent
adjustment.  The determination shall be either to approve or disapprove the
requested rent adjustment.  If the adjustment is approved, then it must be for
the amount requested.  Copies of the findings and determination of the
Department shall be mailed by the Department to the applicant and all affected
tenants.  Said findings and determination shall provide that any rent increases
approved on or after January 1, 1981 for capital improvements or rehabilitation
work begun prior to June 1, 1982 shall not be included as part of the maximum
adjusted rent for purposes of computing rent increases pursuant to Section
151.06 of this chapter.  (Amended by Ord. No. 156,597, Eff. 5/20/82, Oper.
5/15/82.)	3.	Requests for Hearing.	a.	The determination of the Department shall
be final unless a request for hearing is filed by or on behalf of the applicant
or an affected tenant, and such request is received by the Department within 15
days after the mailing of the findings and determination. A request for hearing
shall be in writing and filed in the office of the Department upon a form and
with the number of copies required by the Department. Each request for hearing
shall be accompanied by a filing fee in the amount of $35.00.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 164,167, Eff. 12/12/88.)	b.	A request for hearing shall set forth
specifically, wherein the requesting party believes there was error or abuse of
discretion by the Department in ruling on the application for a rent increase. 
Additionally, a request for hearing may be made based on new, relevant
information which was not submitted to the Department at the time of the initial
determination due to mistake, surprise, inadvertence, or excusable neglect, and
which information would have affected the determination of the Department if it
had been submitted earlier.  The filing of a request for hearing by a tenant or
tenants will not stay the effect of the determination of the Department. 
However, any increase collected by the landlord pursuant to the Department’s
determination but not approved by the hearing officer shall be forthwith
refunded by the landlord to the tenant or tenants from whom such rent increases
were collected, or offset by the landlord against the next legally due rental
payment.  (Amended by Ord. No. 156,597, Eff. 5/20/82, Oper. 5/15/82.)	c.	If a
request for hearing is received by the Department within the 15 day period, then
the requested hearing shall be held within 30 days of the receipt of the request
by a hearing officer designated by the Department.  Notice of the time, date
and place of the hearing shall be mailed by the Department to the applicant and
tenants of the subject rental units at least 10 days prior to the hearing
date.  (Amended by Ord. No. 156,597, Eff. 5/20/82, Oper. 5/15/82.)	d.	The
hearing shall be conducted by a hearing officer designated by the Department. 
At the time of the hearing the landlord and/or any affected tenant may offer
such documents, testimony, written declarations or evidence as may be pertinent
to the proceedings.	e.	In making a determination on an application for rent
increase, the designated hearing officer shall make a written determination
upholding, reversing or modifying the determination of the Department.  If the
determination is to reverse or modify the determination of the Department, the
hearing officer shall specifically set forth the reasons or such reversal or
modification.	f.	Time Limit.  A final decision shall be made by the hearing
officer within 45 days of the termination of the time for filing of a request
for hearing.  The Department shall mail copies of the findings and
determination of the hearing officer to the applicant and all affected
tenants.  Said findings and determination shall provide that any rent increases
approved on or after January 1, 1981 for capital improvements or rehabilitation
work begun prior to June 1, 1982 shall not be included as part of the maximum
adjusted rent for purposes of computing rent increases pursuant to Section
151.06 of this chapter.  (Amended by Ord. No. 156,597, Eff. 5/20/82, Oper.
5/15/82.)	4.	Limitation on Rent Adjustment.  (Added by Ord. No. 154,808, Eff.
2/13/81.)	a.	(Amended by Ord. No. 156,597, Eff. 5/20/82, Oper. 5/15/82.) For
every rental unit which experiences a rent increase based on capital improvement
and/or rehabilitation work begun prior to June 1, 1982 and also approved by the
Department after February 13, 1981:	The Department shall mail a notice to the
landlord of the rental unit indicating that the Department will issue a written
order to the landlord requiring the termination of the rent increase after the
cost of the work has been fully recovered, unless it determines that the rental
unit became eligible for a rent increase pursuant to Section 151.06 C. or that a
reduction in rent would work an undue hardship on the landlord.	b.	An
application for relief from the proposed order may be made within 30 days after
the mailing of the notice in accordance with such procedures as the Commission
may establish.	c.	For any rental unit for which a capital improvement rent
adjustment was granted by the Department between February 13, 1981 and May 31,
1982, and for which a hardship exemption was granted pursuant to Section 151.07
A.4.a., said capital improvement rent adjustment shall terminate upon the
effective date of this amendment. The landlord shall, within ten days of the
effective date of this amendment, serve a written notice of termination of the
capital improvement rent adjustment to all affected tenants setting forth the
amount of increase which is to be terminated.  (Added by Ord. No. 163,832, Eff.
8/25/88.)	5.	The Department in accordance with such guidelines as the Commission
may establish, shall have the authority to grant certificates of exemptions for
luxury housing accommodations and substantial renovation work In processing an
application for exemption, the Department shall afford both landlords and
tenants notice and an opportunity to be heard prior to the issuance of a
certificate of exemption. An application for a certificate of exemption shall be
accompanied by a $25.00 filing fee. After August 31, 1982, no unit shall be
exempt pursuant to Sections 151.02 M.7. or M.8. without first obtaining a
certificate of exemption. Pending completion of the processing of an application
for a certificate of exemption, the Department may issue a temporary certificate
of exemption for housing accommodations.  (Amended by Ord. No. 164,167, Eff.
12/12/88.)	6.	(Subdiv. 6 Added by Ord. No. 159,908, Eff. 6/30/85, Oper.
7/1/85.)  On or before May 30, of each year, the Department shall publish in a
newspaper of general circulation the annual rent increase adjustment for any
rent increase imposed pursuant to Section 151.06 D. of this chapter for the
following twelve (12) month period beginning on July 1 and ending on June 30. 
The Department shall calculate this adjustment as follows:	The annual rent
increase adjustment shall be based on the Consumer Price Index – All Urban
Consumers for the Los Angeles-Long Beach-Anaheim-SMSA averaged for the previous
twelve (12) month period ending September 30 of each year.  It shall reflect
the change in the Consumer Price Index over the previous consecutive twelve (12)
month period expressed as a percentage and rounded off to the nearest whole
number.  If the calculated adjustment is three percent (3%) or less, the
Department shall set the annual rent increase adjustment at three percent (3%)
but, if the calculated adjustment is eight percent (8%) or greater, the
Department shall set the annual rent increase adjustment at eight percent
(8%).	7.	Re-rental Certificates.  (Repealed by Ord. No. 176,544, Eff.
5/2/05.)	8.	The Commission shall promulgate regulations to establish the health,
safety, and habitability standards which shall be followed for any capital
improvement, Primary Renovation Work, Related Work, or rehabilitation work
performed while a tenant is residing in the rental unit.  These regulations
shall include, but not be limited to, provisions regarding advance notification,
security, fire standards, pest control, the operation of dangerous equipment,
utility interruptions, the use of potentially dangerous construction materials,
and the protection of tenants and their property from exposure to natural
elements.  (Amended by Ord. No. 176,544, Eff. 5/2/05.)	B.	Authority of the
Commission and Hearing Officers.	1.	(Amended by Ord. No. 156,597, Eff. 5/20/82,
Oper. 5/15/82.)  A designated hearing officer shall have the authority, in
accordance with such guidelines as the Commission may establish, to grant
increases in the rent for a rental unit, or for two or more rental units located
in the same housing complex, upon receipt of an application for adjustment filed
by the landlord and after notice and hearing, if the hearing officer finds that
such increase is in keeping with the purposes of this chapter and that the
maximum rent or maximum adjusted rent otherwise permitted pursuant to this
chapter does not constitute a just and reasonable return on the rental unit or
units.  The following are factors, among other relevant factors as the
Commission may determine, which may be considered in determining whether a
rental unit yields a just and reasonable return:	a.	property
taxes;	b.	reasonable operating and maintenance expenses;	c.	the extent of
capital improvements made to the building in which the rental unit is located as
distinguished from ordinary repair, replacement and maintenance;	d.	living
space, and the level of housing services;	e.	substantial deterioration of the
rental units other than as a result of ordinary wear and tear;	f.	failure to
perform ordinary repair, replacement and maintenance; and	g.	financing costs on
the property if such financing was obtained prior to June 1, 1978 and if it
contains either a balloon payment or variable rate
provision.	2.	Anti-Speculation Provision.  If the only justification offered
for the requested rent increase on the landlord’s application is an assertion
that the maximum rents or maximum adjusted rents permitted pursuant to this
chapter do not allow the landlord a return sufficient to pay both the operating
expenses and debt service on the rental unit or units or on the housing complex
containing the rental unit or units, a rent adjustment will not be permitted
pursuant to this subsection to a landlord who acquired an interest in the rental
unit or units after October 1, 1978.	3.	Procedures.	a.	An application for rent
adjustment shall be submitted on a form and with the number of copies prescribed
by the Department and shall include among other things the addresses and unit
numbers of the unit or units for which an adjustment is requested. Such
application may include all rental units in a housing complex for which a rent
increase is requested. Each application shall be accompanied by a $25.00 filing
fee. An applicant shall produce at the request of the Department or hearing
officer to whom the matter is assigned such records, receipts or reports as the
Department or hearing officer may deem necessary to make a determination on the
adjustment request. Failure to produce such requested items shall be sufficient
basis for the Department or hearing officer to terminate the rent adjustment
proceeding. All applications shall be accompanied by a declaration stating that
the above information is true and correct.  (Amended by Ord. No. 164,167, Eff.
12/12/88.)	b.	Upon receipt of a completed application, the application shall be
referred by the Department to a hearing officer for processing and
determination.  The Department shall notify by mail the tenant or tenants of
the subject unit or units of the receipt of such application, the amount of the
requested rent increase, the landlord’s justification for the request, and the
place, date and time of the hearing on the adjustment request.  The hearing
shall be set no less than 10 days nor more than 45 days after the date of
mailing such notice.	c.	The hearing shall be conducted by a hearing officer
designated by the Department.  At the time of the hearing the landlord and/or
any affected tenant may offer such documents, testimony, written declarations or
evidence as may be pertinent to the proceedings.	d.	A determination with written
findings in support thereof shall be made by the assigned hearing officer within
75 days from the date of the filing of the application.  A rent adjustment may
be granted for less than, but for no more than the amount requested.	e.	Copies
of the findings and determination of the hearing officer shall be mailed by the
Department to the applicant and all affected tenants.  The determination shall
become final 15 days from the date of mailing unless an appeal is filed with the
Commission within such period.  (Amended by Ord. No. 156,597, Eff. 5/20/82,
Oper. 5/15/82.)	4.	Appeals.	a.	Time and Manner.  An appeal to the Commission
from the determination of a hearing officer may be filed by the applicant or any
affected tenant pursuant to this subsection within 15 days after mailing of such
determination. Such appeals shall be in writing and shall be filed in the office
of the Department upon a form and with the number of copies required by the
Commission. Each appeal shall be accompanied by a $50.00 filing fee. An appeal
shall set forth specifically wherein the appellant believes there was an error
or abuse of discretion by the hearing officer. Additionally, an appeal may be
made based on new, relevant information which was not submitted to the hearing
officer at the time of the initial determination due to mistake, surprise,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect, and which information would have affected
the determination of the hearing officer if it had been submitted earlier. The
filing of an appeal will not stay the effect of the hearing officer’s
determination. However, any rent increases collected by the landlord pursuant to
the hearing officer’s determination but not approved on appeal shall be
forthwith refunded to the tenant or tenants from whom such rent increases were
collected or offset against the next legally due rental payment.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 164,167, Eff. 12/12/88.)	b.	Record on Appeal.  Upon receipt of an
appeal, the entire administrative record of the matter, including the appeal,
shall be filed with the Commission.  At any time prior to action on the appeal,
the hearing officer may submit to the Commission written comments pertaining to
the appeal.	c.	Hearing Date and Notice.  Upon receipt of the appeal, the
Commission shall cause the matter to be set for hearing before three or more
Commissioners acting as an appeals board, and notice shall be given by mail of
the date, time, place and purpose thereof to the applicant and all affected
tenants.  Such notice shall be in writing and mailed at least 10 days prior to
said hearing.  The appeals board shall make its determination within 60 days
after the expiration of the appeal period or within such extended period of time
as may be mutually agreed upon by the appellant and the designated appeals
board.  (Amended by Ord. No. 156,597, Eff. 5/20/82, Oper.
5/15/82.)	d.	Determination.  If the appeals board fails to act within the time
limits specified in this section, the determination of the hearing officer shall
become final.  The decision on appeal shall be concurred in by a majority of
the appeals board.  The appeals board may affirm, modify or reverse the
determination of the hearing officer.  It may modify or reverse such
determination only upon making written findings setting forth specifically
either  (i)  wherein the action of the hearing officer was in error or
constituted an abuse of discretion, or  (ii)  the new information not
available at the time of the hearing upon which the appellant relies, and
supporting its own determination.  A copy of the findings and determination
shall be mailed to the applicant and to affected tenants.  (Amended by Ord. No.
156,597, Eff. 5/20/82, Oper. 5/15/82.)
