                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ELLIS ACT PROVISIONS – RENTAL OF REPLACEMENT UNITS. (§ 151.28)

  ELLIS ACT PROVISIONS – RENTAL OF REPLACEMENT UNITS.
	(Added by Ord. No. 178,848, Eff. 7/16/07.)	A.	Replacement Units Subject to the
Rent Stabilization Ordinance.  If a building containing a rental unit that was
the subject of a Notice of Intent to Withdraw pursuant to the provisions of
Subsection A. of Section 151.23 is demolished and rental units are constructed
on the same property and offered for rent or lease within five years of the date
the rental unit that was the subject of the Notice of Intent to Withdraw was
withdrawn from rent or lease, the owner may establish the initial rental rate
for the newly constructed rental units.  The provisions of the Rent
Stabilization Ordinance, Section 151.00, et seq., and other provisions of this
chapter shall apply to the newly constructed rental units.	This section shall
not apply to demolished buildings containing four or fewer rental units, if the
owner of the building, whose name appears on legal title to the property, is a
natural person and resided in the building for three consecutive years prior to
demolition, or if the building is not yet demolished, for three consecutive
years prior to filing an application for exemption.  To obtain this exemption,
an owner must apply to the Department for exemption pursuant to the provisions
of Subdivision 3. of Subsection C. of this section.	B.	Exemption from the Rent
Stabilization Ordinance with Replacement Affordable Units.  An owner who
replaces the number of demolished rental units with an equal number of
affordable housing units, not to exceed 20% of the total number of newly
constructed rental units, may apply to the Department for an exemption of the
newly constructed rental units from the provisions of the Rent Stabilization
Ordinance.  The affordable housing units must be located in the newly
constructed accommodations.  The Department shall issue an exemption where it
finds all of the following to exist:	1.	The owner executed and recorded a
covenant and agreement, in a form satisfactory to the Department, guaranteeing
that the replacement affordable housing units, affordable for households with an
income at or below 80% of Area Median Income as established by the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development for the Los Angeles-Long Beach
primary metropolitan statistical area, shall remain affordable for 30 years from
the date the covenant and agreement is recorded.  The covenant and agreement
contains provisions as required by the Department to ensure the effective
administration and enforcement of this subsection.	2.	The replacement affordable
housing units shall be reasonably dispersed throughout the newly constructed
accommodations and shall not be segregated in a portion of the accommodations
dedicated to affordable housing units.	3.	The replacement affordable housing
units shall be comparable to the market rate units and contain, on average, the
same number of bedrooms, bathrooms and square footage as the market rate
units.  The replacement affordable housing units shall be comparable in
architectural style to the average of the market rate units.	Units that are used
to qualify for a density bonus pursuant to the provisions of either California
Government Code Section 65915 or Los Angeles Municipal Code Section 12.22 A.25.,
or are used to satisfy any inclusionary zoning or replacement affordable housing
requirement, or are used to qualify for any other public benefit or incentive,
may be used to qualify as replacement affordable housing units pursuant to the
provisions of this subsection.	C.	Application for Exemption from the Rent
Stabilization Ordinance.	1.	Hardship Exemption.  The Department shall have the
authority to grant an exemption from the provisions of this section in cases of
undue financial hardship arising from detrimental reliance on the provisions of
this article prior to the enactment of this section as duly established to the
satisfaction of the Department.  An owner claiming hardship must file a written
application for exemption with the Department on forms provided by the
Department within 90 days of the effective date of this section, and the owner
must demonstrate that the hardship existed as of the date that the ordinance
enacting this section was adopted by Council.	An owner who files an application
for exemption from the provisions of this section pursuant to the provisions of
this subdivision shall pay to the Department an administrative fee in the amount
of $160.00 for each application.  The administrative fee shall be used to
finance the costs of processing and investigating applications for
exemption.	2.	Replacement Affordable Housing Unit Exemption.  An owner may, at
any time, apply for exemption pursuant to the provisions of Subsection B. of
this section, but must do so by written application on a form provided by the
Department.  If the Department issues an exemption while there are tenants
residing in rental units that are subject to the provisions of the Rent
Stabilization Ordinance, each of the units shall continue to be subject to the
provisions of the Rent Stabilization Ordinance until all tenants in a unit
voluntarily vacate the unit, or have their tenancies terminated pursuant to the
provisions of Subdivisions 1., 2., 3., 4., 5., 6., 7., 9., 11., or 12. of
Subsection A. of Section 151.09 of this article.	An owner who files an
application for exemption from the Rent Stabilization Ordinance pursuant to the
provisions of this subdivision shall pay to the Department an administrative fee
in the amount of $705.00 for each application, plus $75.00 for each replacement
affordable housing unit.  The administrative fee shall be used to finance the
costs of processing and investigating applications for exemption, and continued
monitoring.	3.	Owner Occupancy Exemption.  An owner, whose name appears on
legal title to the property, may file an application for exemption from the Rent
Stabilization Ordinance on the grounds that the owner is a natural person who
occupied the demolished building, which consisted of four or fewer rental units,
for three years prior to the demolition of the building.  If the building has
not yet been demolished, an owner may file an application for exemption from
Subsection A. of Section 151.28 on the grounds that the building to be
demolished consists of four or fewer rental units, and that the owner occupied
the building for three consecutive years prior to filing an application for
exemption.  An owner may, at any time, apply for exemption, but must do so by
written application on a form provided by the Department.  If the Department
issues an exemption while there are tenants residing in units that are subject
to the provisions of the Rent Stabilization Ordinance, each of the units shall
continue to be subject to the provisions of the Rent Stabilization Ordinance
until all tenants in a unit voluntarily vacate the unit, or have their tenancies
terminated pursuant to the provisions of Subdivisions 1., 2., 3., 4., 5., 6.,
7., 9., 11., or 12. of Subsection A. of Section 151.09 of this article.	An owner
who files an application for exemption from the Rent Stabilization Ordinance
pursuant to the provisions of this subdivision shall pay to the Department an
administrative fee in an amount to be determined by ordinance.  The
administrative fee shall be used to finance the costs of processing and
investigating applications for exemption.	4.	Verification of Information. 
Information submitted in any written application to the Department for any of
the exemptions outlined in this section, will be subject to verification and
approval by the Department.	D.	Appeals.  An owner who is denied an exemption
from the Rent Stabilization Ordinance for an application filed pursuant to the
provisions of Subsection C. of this section may appeal the denial by requesting
a hearing before the General Manager.  The appeal must be filed in writing and
received by the Department within 15 calendar days of the date of mailing the
denial decision.  The appeal must be on a form provided by the Department and
identify the grounds for appeal.  If an appeal from a decision to deny an
exemption is not received by the Department within the 15 day appeal period, the
decision will be final.	An owner who files an appeal from an application for
exemption filed pursuant to the provisions of Subdivisions 1. or 2. of
Subsection C. of this section shall pay to the Department an administrative fee
in the amount of $290.00 for each appeal.  An owner who files an appeal from an
application for exemption filed pursuant to the provisions of Subdivision 3. of
Subsection C. of this section shall pay to the Department an administrative fee
in an amount to be determined by ordinance.  The fee shall be used to finance
the cost of the appeal process.	The General Manager’s hearing shall be held
within 30 days of receiving the appeal and will follow the procedures set forth
in Division 8 of Article 1 of Chapter XVI of this Code.  The owner may present
proof at the hearing of entitlement to an exemption, and a Department
representative shall explain the reason for the denial of the exemption
application.	The General Manager shall issue a written decision of the appeal
and may affirm, modify, or reverse the determination of the Department.  The
General Manager may grant a continuance of the hearing upon a showing of good
cause or where further Department investigation is warranted.	E.	Authority of
Department.  The Department shall be responsible for carrying out the
provisions of this section and shall have the authority to promulgate and
administer policies, rules, and regulations to effectuate the purposes of this
section.
