                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

REMEDIES. (§ 152.07)

  REMEDIES.
	(Added by Ord. No. 176,544, Eff. 5/2/05.)	A.	A landlord who fails to abide by
the terms of an accepted Tenant Habitability Plan shall be denied individual
rent adjustments under Section 151.07 A.1.(d) of this Code, absent extenuating
circumstances.	B.	In any action by a landlord to recover possession of a rental
unit, the tenant may raise as an affirmative defense the failure of the landlord
to comply with any provisions contained in this article.	C.	Any person who
willfully or knowingly with the intent to deceive, makes a false statement or
representation, or knowingly fails to disclose a material fact in any plan or
notice required under this article, or in any declaration, application, hearing
or appeal permitted under this article, including oral or written evidence
presented in support thereof, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.	Any person
convicted of a misdemeanor under the provisions of this chapter shall be
punished by a fine of not more than $1,000.00 or by imprisonment in the County
Jail for a period of not more than six months or both.  Each violation of any
provision of this chapter and each day during which such violation is committed,
or continues, shall constitute a separate offense.	D.	Any person who fails to
provide relocation assistance pursuant to Section 152.05 of this Code shall be
liable in a civil action to the person to whom such assistance is due for
damages in the amount of the unpaid relocation assistance, together with
reasonable attorney’s fees and costs as determined by the court.	E.	Any person
who breaches any duty or obligation set forth in Section 152.06 of this Code
shall be liable in a civil action by any person, organization or entity, for all
actual damages, special damages in an amount not to exceed the greater of twice
the amount of actual damages or $5,000, and reasonable attorney’s fees and
costs as determined by the court.  Damages of three times the amount of the
actual damages may be awarded in a civil action for willful failure to comply
with the payment obligations, to provide safe, decent and sanitary temporary
replacement housing, or to allow a tenant to reoccupy a rental unit once the
primary work is completed.	F.	Any agreement, whether written or oral, waiving
any of the provisions contained in this article shall be void as contrary to
public policy.	G.	Nothing in this article shall be construed to deprive a person
of due process rights guaranteed by law, including, but not limited to, a right
to appeal the Department’s determination regarding a Tenant Habitability Plan
to a hearing officer.	H.	The remedies provided by this article are in addition
to any other legal or equitable remedies and are not intended to be exclusive.
