                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

TEMPORARY RELOCATION AND TEMPORARY REPLACEMENT HOUSING. (§ 152.06)

  TEMPORARY RELOCATION AND TEMPORARY REPLACEMENT HOUSING.
	(Added by Ord. No. 176,544, Eff. 5/2/05.)	A.	The landlord shall indicate in its
Tenant Habitability Plan whether the temporary relocation of one or more tenant
households is necessary.  Pursuant to Section 152.03 of this Code, the
Department independently may determine whether temporary relocation is necessary
in conjunction with its review of the Tenant Habitability Plan.  The Department
may also require the temporary relocation of a tenant at any time during the
project if the Department determines temporary relocation is necessary to ensure
the health or safety of the tenant.	B.	The temporary relocation of a tenant
pursuant to this article shall not constitute the voluntary vacating of that
rental unit and shall not terminate the status and rights of a tenant, including
the right to reoccupy the tenant’s rental unit upon the completion of the
Primary Renovation Work and any Related Work.	C.	A tenant who is temporarily
relocated as a result of Primary Renovation Work shall continue to pay rent in
the manner prescribed by any lease provision or accepted in the course of
business between the landlord and the tenant.	D.	A landlord shall pay for all
temporary housing accommodation costs and any costs related to relocating the
tenant to temporary housing accommodations, regardless of whether those costs
exceed rent paid by the tenant.  The landlord shall also pay any costs related
to returning the tenant to his/her unit, if applicable.  The Commission may
adopt guidelines or regulations regarding the payment of moving costs.	E.	A
landlord may choose to place a tenant’s rent and any other required payments
in an escrow account.  All costs of opening and maintaining the escrow account
shall be borne by the landlord.  Monies deposited into the escrow account shall
be distributed in accordance with guidelines or regulations established by the
Commission.  The cost of opening an escrow account is not recoverable under
Section 151.07 A.1.d. of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff.
12/18/05.)	F.	A landlord must temporarily relocate a tenant to habitable
temporary housing accommodations if the Primary Renovation Work and any Related
Work will make the rental unit an untenantable dwelling, as defined in
California Civil Code Section 1941.1, outside of the hours of 8:00 am through
5:00 pm, Monday through Friday, or will expose the tenant at any time to toxic
or hazardous materials including, but not limited to, lead-based paint and
asbestos.	1.	Temporary Replacement Housing Accommodations for 30 or more
consecutive days.  If the temporary relocation lasts 30 or more consecutive
days, the landlord shall make available comparable housing either within the
same building or in another building.  For purposes of this section, a
replacement unit shall be comparable to the existing unit if both units are
comparable in size, number of bedrooms, accessibility, proximity to services and
institutions upon which the displaced tenant depends, amenities, including
allowance for pets, if necessary, and, if the tenant desires, location within
five miles of the rental unit.  The landlord and tenant may agree that the
tenant will occupy a non-comparable replacement unit provided that the tenant is
compensated for any reduction in services.	2.	Temporary Replacement Housing
Accommodations for fewer than 30 consecutive days.  If the temporary relocation
lasts less than 30 consecutive days, the landlord shall make available temporary
housing that, at a minimum, provides habitable replacement accommodations within
the same building or rental complex, in a hotel or motel, or in other external
rental housing.  The Commission may adopt guidelines or regulations regarding
temporary housing. If the temporary housing is in a hotel, motel or other
external rental housing, it shall be located no greater than two miles from the
tenant’s rental unit, unless no such accommodation is available, and contain
standard amenities such as a telephone.	3.	Per Diem Payment.  A landlord and
tenant may mutually agree to allow the landlord to pay the tenant a per diem
amount for each day of temporary relocation in lieu of providing temporary
replacement housing.  The agreement shall be in writing and signed by the
landlord and tenant and shall contain the tenant’s acknowledgment that he/she
received notice of his/her rights under this section and that the tenant
understands his/her rights.  The landlord shall provide a copy of this
agreement to the Department.	G.	The landlord shall provide written notice,
before the tenant is temporarily displaced, advising the tenant of the right to
reoccupy the unit under the existing terms of tenancy once the Primary
Renovation Work and any Related Work is completed.  Unless the landlord
provides the temporary replacement housing, the tenant shall provide the
landlord with the address to be used for future notifications by the landlord. 
When the date on which the unit will be available for reoccupancy is known, or
as soon as possible thereafter, the landlord shall provide written notice to the
tenant by personal delivery, or registered or certified mail, and shall provide
a copy of that notice to the Department.  If the tenant was temporarily
relocated for over 30 days and has a separate tenancy agreement with a third
party housing provider, the landlord shall give the tenant a minimum of 30 days
written notice to reoccupy.  In all other cases, the landlord shall give the
tenant a minimum of seven days written notice to reoccupy, unless the landlord
gave the tenant written notice of the date of reoccupancy prior to the start of
temporary relocation.
