                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PROCEDURE FOR UNDERTAKING PRIMARY RENOVATION WORK. (§ 152.03)

  PROCEDURE FOR UNDERTAKING PRIMARY RENOVATION WORK.
	(Added by Ord. No. 176,544, Eff. 5/2/05.)	A.	Building Permits.	1.	No landlord
shall undertake Primary Renovation Work without first obtaining a permit,
pursuant to Sections 91.106, 92.0129, 92.0132, 93.0201, 94.103, or 95.112.2 of
this Code.  This requirement applies to all Primary Renovation Work, regardless
of whether such work is eligible for a rent adjustment under any of the
provisions of Section 151.07 A.1. of this Code and regardless of which provision
of that subdivision, if any, is intended to be used as a ground for seeking a
rent adjustment following the completion of the work.	2.	The Department shall
clear a landlord’s application for a permit for Primary Renovation Work if
both of the following conditions have been met:	a.	The landlord has submitted a
Tenant Habitability Plan which, in accordance with Subsection C. of this
section, the Department finds to adequately mitigate the impact of Primary
Renovation Work and any Related Work upon affected tenants; and	b.	The landlord
has submitted a declaration documenting service to affected tenants of both a
Notice of Primary Renovation Work and a copy of the non-confidential portions of
the Tenant Habitability Plan.	B.	Tenant Habitability Plan.  At a minimum, a
Tenant Habitability Plan shall provide the following information, together with
any other information the Department deems necessary to ensure that the impact
of Primary Renovation Work and any Related Work upon affected tenants is
adequately mitigated:	1.	Identification of the landlord, the general contractor
responsible for the Primary Renovation Work, and any specialized contractor
responsible for hazardous material abatement, including but not limited to
lead-based paint and asbestos.	2.	Identification of all affected tenants
including the current rent each tenant pays and the date of each tenant’s last
rent increase.  In accordance with California Civil Code Sec. 1798 et seq.,
information regarding tenants shall be considered confidential.	3.	Description
of the scope of work covering the Primary Renovation Work and any Related
Work.  Such description shall address the overall work to be undertaken on all
affected units and common areas, the specific work to be undertaken on each
affected unit, an estimate of the total project cost and time, and an estimate
of the cost and time of renovation for each affected unit.	4.	Identification of
the impact of the Primary Renovation Work and Related Work on the habitability
of affected rental units, including a discussion of impact severity and duration
with regard to noise, utility interruption, exposure to hazardous materials,
interruption of fire safety systems, inaccessibility of all or portions of each
affected rental unit, and disruption of other tenant services.	5.	Identification
of the mitigation measures that will be adopted to ensure that tenants are not
required to occupy an untenantable dwelling, as defined in California Civil Code
Section 1941.1, outside of the hours of 8:00 am through 5:00 pm, Monday through
Friday, and are not exposed at any time to toxic or hazardous materials
including, but not limited to, lead-based paint and asbestos.  Such measures
may include the adoption of work procedures that allow a tenant to remain
on-site and/or the temporary relocation of tenants.	6.	Identification of the
impact of the Primary Renovation Work and Related Work on the personal property
of affected tenants, including work areas which must be cleared of furnishings
and other tenant property, and the exposure of tenant property to theft or
damage from hazards related to work or storage.	7.	Identification of the
mitigation measures that will be adopted to secure and protect tenant property
from reasonably foreseeable damage or loss.	C.	Plan Acceptance.	1.	The
Department shall make a determination regarding the adequacy of a landlord’s
Tenant Habitability Plan within five working days of the Department’s receipt
of the plan for review.  The Department shall accept those plans which meet the
requirements of Subsection B. of this section and which it determines, with
reference to the standards set forth in California Civil Code Section 1941.1 and
in accordance with any regulations or guidelines adopted by the Commission, will
adequately mitigate the impacts of Primary Renovation Work and any Related Work
upon tenants.  The Tenant Habitability Plan may allow for the temporary
disruption of major systems during the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday
through Friday, without requiring the relocation of tenants in order to
adequately mitigate the impacts upon the affected tenants.  However tenants
should not be exposed at any time to toxic or hazardous materials including, but
not limited to, lead-based paint and asbestos.	2.	The Department’s acceptance
of a Tenant Habitability Plan shall be subject to the landlord having no
outstanding balances due for rent registration or code enforcement fees.	3.	The
Department shall provide landlords with written indications of deficiencies
which must be addressed whenever a Tenant Habitability Plan is determined to be
inadequate. A landlord may submit an amended plan in order to correct identified
deficiencies.	4.	Landlords and tenants may appeal the Department’s
determination regarding a Tenant Habitability Plan to a hearing officer.  The
appeal shall be made in writing, upon appropriate forms provided by the
Department, and shall specify the grounds for appeal.  The appeal shall be
filed within 15 calendar days of the service of the Department’s
determination, as required by Section 152.04 of this Code and shall be
accompanied by the payment of an administrative fee of $35.00.  The requested
hearing shall be held within 30 calendar days of the filing of the appeal
following the procedures set forth in Section 151.07 A.3. of this Code.  The
hearing officer shall issue a written decision within ten calendar days of the
hearing on the appeal, with a copy of the decision served on the landlord and
the tenants by first class mail, postage prepaid, or in person.	D.	Notice of
Primary Renovation Work.  Notice of Primary Renovation Work shall be written in
the language in which the original lease was negotiated and shall provide the
following information:	1.	The estimated start and completion dates of any
Primary Renovation Work and Related Work associated with a Tenant Habitability
Plan accepted by the Department.	2.	A description of the Primary Renovation Work
and Related Work to be performed and how it will impact that particular tenant
or household.	3.	The details of temporary relocation, if necessitated by the
Primary Renovation Work, and associated tenant rights under this
article.	4.	Instructions that tenants with questions should consult the
landlord, the Department, or the Department’s designee.	5.	Notice of a
tenant’s right to reoccupy the units under the existing terms of tenancy upon
completion of Primary Renovation Work, subject to rent adjustments as authorized
under this chapter.	6.	Notice that the tenant may appeal the Department’s
acceptance of a Tenant Habitability Plan in cases where the tenant does not
agree with the landlord regarding the necessity for the tenant to either be
temporarily displaced or remain in place during Primary Renovation Work,
provided such request is submitted within 15 days of the tenant’s receipt of
the Notice of Primary Renovation Work.
