                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

FILING OF COMPLAINT FOR HEP, NOTIFICATION OF LANDLORD. (§ 153.03)

  FILING OF COMPLAINT FOR HEP, NOTIFICATION OF LANDLORD.
	(Added by Ord. No. 171,074, Eff. 6/23/96.)	A.	Filing of Complaint.	1.	Either a
tenant or enforcement agency may initiate a complaint with the Department
alleging the existence of a habitability violation in a residential rental unit
subject to the Rent Stabilization Ordinance.  For purposes of this division the
term “enforcement agency” includes, but is not limited to, the Health
Department, the Department of Building and Safety, Los Angeles Housing
Department Code Enforcement Unit, and the Fire Department.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 172,537, Eff. 5/13/99.)	2.	A complaint submitted by a tenant alleging a
habitability violation shall be submitted to the Department as follows:	a.	On a
form provided by the Department.	b.	Include proof that the tenant has given the
landlord at least twenty (20) days prior notice of the alleged violation.	c.	A
declaration stating that all information provided in the complaint form is true
will be included on the form provided by the Department pursuant to (a)
above.	The form shall also include language stating that “Any person who
willfully or knowingly with the intent to deceive makes a false statement or
representation, or knowingly fails to disclose a material fact, shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor.” LAMC §151.10(B)	3.	When submitting a complaint, the tenant
may include evidence or documentation which supports that the habitability
violation exists.	B.	Acceptance of Complaint.	1.	Prior to formal acceptance of
the complaint from a tenant alleging a habitability violation, the Department
shall determine if:	a)	the complaint alleges a deficiency which conforms with
the definition of a Habitability Violation;	b)	the complaint was submitted in
accordance with Subdivision 2 of Subsection A of Section 153.03 of this
Code.	2.	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,810, Eff. 4/16/01.)  Upon acceptance of the
complaint from a tenant or an enforcement agency, if the complaint is supported
by an Order, then the complaint shall be treated as a referral to the REAP and
rent reduction under Section 162.03, and shall be processed under that
section.	3.	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,810, Eff. 4/16/01.)  Upon acceptance of
the complaint from a tenant, if the complaint is not supported by an Order, the
Department will notify the landlord of a HEP filing and indicate the date of the
scheduled hearing, which shall be no sooner then thirty days and no later then
forty-five days from the date of the Department’s notification.  To the
extent feasible, the hearing shall be coordinated with any General Manager’s
hearing scheduled under Section 161.801 et seq.	4.	(Added by Ord. No. 173,810,
Eff. 4/16/01.)  If the complaint is not supported by an Order, the Department
shall also refer the complaint for inspection pursuant to Section
161.602.	5.	(Added by Ord. No. 173,810, Eff. 4/16/01.)  In the event the
Department determines that the complaint was submitted in bad faith or was
frivolous, the complaint shall be denied.  The complaint is frivolous if it is
either totally and completely without merit, or is submitted for the sole
purpose of harassing an opposing party.  However, the tenant may appeal the
Department’s decision to a hearing officer and a hearing will be held on the
issue of whether or not the complaint is frivolous – not on the merits of the
complaint itself.  If a complaint is found to be frivolous by a hearing
officer, the tenant will be barred from filing an additional application through
the HEP for one year.
