                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

REFERRAL OF PROPERTY. (§ 153.05)

  REFERRAL OF PROPERTY.
	(Added by Ord. No. 171,074, Eff. 6/23/96.)	A.	General Manager Determination. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 173,810, Eff. 4/16/01.)  The burden is on the tenant to
prove that a habitability violation exists, except that where an Order has been
issued to correct the violation, the burden is on the landlord to show that the
violation never existed, is the fault of the tenant, or has been corrected.  If
after consideration of the facts presented at the hearing, the General Manager
determines that a habitability violation exists, the General Manager will be
authorized to issue a rent reduction and a temporary diversion of rents into
REAP.  The amount of the rent reduction will be based on a schedule approved by
the Rent Adjustment Commission.	B.	Hearing Procedures.  (Amended by Ord. No.
173,810, Eff. 4/16/01.)  To the extent feasible, the Department shall follow
procedures and make findings in conformance with Article 1 of Chapter XVI of the
Los Angeles Municipal Code.	C.	Appeals.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,810, Eff.
4/16/01.)  The landlord may appeal a decision to reduce the rent or accept the
property into REAP to the Appeals Board following the procedures set forth in
Division 10 of Article 1 of Chapter XVI of this Code.	D.	Additional
Procedures.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,810, Eff. 4/16/01.)  Should the General
Manager order the property accepted into REAP, a rent escrow account will be
established.  The affected tenants will be notified of their right to pay their
monthly rent, minus the approved rent reduction, into the REAP account.
Additionally, they will be advised that payment into REAP provides an
affirmative defense against eviction by the landlord for non-payment of
rent.	Upon placement of the property into REAP, the Department may make a
determination of the estimated cost to repair the habitability violation.  At
any time prior to the accumulation of funds in the escrow account, which equals
the estimated repair cost, the landlord may submit evidence that the repair has
been made and request reimbursement from the escrow account.  These funds shall
be released to the landlord, minus fees associated with the administration of
the escrow account.  However, if the landlord does not effect the repairs prior
to the accumulation of the repair amount, the tenant may make the repairs with
the funds held in the escrow account.  Once the repairs have been made and all
administrative costs have been collected, the rent escrow account will be
closed.	Additional payments may be made from the escrow account following the
procedures set forth in Section 162.07B.	E.	Exceptions.  (Added by Ord. No.
173,810, Eff. 4/16/01.)	1.	No rent reduction or action to include the property
into REAP will be imposed or initiated for a temporary reduction or elimination
of the services, listed under the Habitability Violation definition above, if
the landlord can demonstrate that the reduction or elimination was necessary for
the repair, replacement or upgrade of the elevator, security gate or air
conditioning unit and the repair, upgrade or replacement was completed within a
reasonable period of time taking into account all relevant factors.	2.	No rent
reduction or action to include the property into REAP will be imposed or
initiated if the service reduction or elimination was not within the reasonable
control of the landlord to remedy within 20 days of the landlord’s receipt of
written notice from a tenant of the problem.  No rent reduction or REAP action
shall be ordered until such time as the service reduction that was the subject
of the complaint was within the reasonable control of the landlord to make
repairs, or, with respect to underground parking gates only, within 60 days of
the landlord’s receipt from the tenant of written notice of the problem.
