                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

EXPENDITURE OF UMP ESCROW ACCOUNT FUNDS BY THE DEPARTMENT. (§ 155.06)

  EXPENDITURE OF UMP ESCROW ACCOUNT FUNDS BY THE DEPARTMENT.
	(Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 181,643, Eff. 5/31/11.)	The funds paid
into the escrow account shall only be expended on the following items:	A.	The
non-refundable administrative fee of $50.00 for each rent payment made into
UMP.	B.	Funds paid in accordance with a court order.	C.	Funds paid to DWP for
the amount required to maintain utility services from the date of the referral
pursuant to Section 155.02 A. of this Code.	D.	Funds returned to the landlord(s)
when payment arrangements have been reached to the satisfaction of
DWP.	E.	Excess escrow funds remaining after payment of DWP delinquent utility
bills.	a.	Funds returned to the landlord(s) where the landlord(s) has provided
the Department with proof that the deficiencies have been corrected.	b.	Funds
returned to the landlord(s) when the landlord(s) is in compliance with any order
or citation issued by the City Departments of Housing, Building and Safety and
Fire, and the County Department of Health Services, the landlord(s) has complied
with the unit registration requirement of the RSO and the building is not in
REAP.	F.	The Department may return funds remaining in the UMP account for a
building, to the extent legally permissible, to the tenants who deposited such
funds.  The Department shall adopt regulations with respect to the return of
funds.	G.	At any time after funds are paid to DWP pursuant to Subsection C.
above, a tenant may apply to the Department for a release of funds from the
escrow account.  The Department shall review the application and, after notice
and opportunity to be heard is given to the landlord, may order the release of
funds from the escrow account where it has been demonstrated to the satisfaction
of the Department that such release is necessary to prevent a significant
diminution of an essential service to the building, or is necessary for the
correction of the deficiencies.  Where specifically ordered by a court, the
Department shall order the release of funds from the escrow account.
