                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ACCEPTANCE INTO REAP. (§ 155.03)

  ACCEPTANCE INTO REAP.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 181,643, Eff. 5/31/11.)	A.	Notice of Acceptance.  Within
five working days of the decision on acceptance of a building into UMP, the
Department shall mail notification of the acceptance to the landlord(s)
identified in the title report, any creditors of the landlord(s) known to the
Department, DWP, any interested parties, all tenants in the building who are
known to the Department, and the occupants of each residential unit.  The
Notice of Acceptance shall state that the building has been accepted into UMP
and shall also state the following:	1.	The street address and the rent
registration number, if any, of the building;	2.	The findings made pursuant to
Section 155.02 E.;	3.	The proposed date upon or after which an escrow account
shall be established into which tenants of the affected residential units may
deposit their rent in lieu of payment to the landlord(s);	4.	That a
non-refundable administrative fee of $50.00 per residential unit per monthly
rent payment shall be collected by the Department from the escrow
account;	5.	That non-payment of rents into UMP within 30 days of the date of the
Notice of Acceptance by sufficient number of tenants required to fulfill the
minimum utility payment amount that DWP requires to maintain the utility
service, may result in termination of utility services by DWP;	6.	Written
direction to tenants of how payments may be deposited into the escrow
account;	7.	That participating tenants have eviction protection rights under
REAP;	8.	That escrow funds will be paid to DWP to maintain the utility services;
and	9.	That non-participation of tenants in UMP may result in evacuation of the
building due to utility service termination.	B.	Service and Recordation.  After
the decision accepting the building into UMP becomes final, the Department shall
file and record with the County Recorder of the County of Los Angeles a
certificate legally describing the real property and stating that the subject
building has been placed into UMP and that the landlord of the building has been
so notified.  After the building has been removed from UMP, the Department
shall file and record with the County Recorder a certificate terminating the
above-recorded status of the subject building.  The Department may, by
regulation, provide for the reimbursement to the Department from the escrow
account for the fees and costs incurred.
