                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF UMP ACCOUNT. (§ 155.05)

  ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF UMP ACCOUNT.
	(Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 181,643, Eff. 5/31/11.)	A.	Within ten
working days of the acceptance of a building into UMP, the Department shall
establish an escrow account for the building into which tenants may deposit rent
payments.  The Department shall mail notification to all tenants of the
existence of the account, include payment coupons to tenants and provide an
explanation of how payments may be deposited into the account.  The Department
shall provide a receipt to each tenant making a deposit.  The Department shall
provide, at least once a month, a periodic report to the landlord(s) concerning
the activity in the account.  The records of the account shall be reasonably
available to the landlord(s) or any interested party, or their representatives,
in accordance with Department regulations, including the provision for payment
of reasonable fees, as the Department may promulgate.  Tenants shall be
informed that non-payment of rent monies into UMP or inadequate participation by
other tenants in the building may result in termination of utility
services.	B.	The gross amount of payment made into the escrow account by or on
behalf of a tenant shall be deemed as a payment in the same amount to the
landlord(s), including, but not limited to, for the purpose of determining
whether a tenant has paid rent with respect to Section 151.09 A.1. of this
Code.  In any action by a landlord(s) to recover possession of a residential
unit, the tenant may raise the fact of payments into UMP as an affirmative
defense in the same manner as if those payments had been made to and accepted by
the landlord(s).	C.	If the dominant intent of the landlord(s) in seeking to
recover possession of a residential unit is retaliation against the tenant for
exercising his or her rights under this Article, and if the tenant is not in
default as to the payment of rent, including payments into UMP, then the
landlord(s) may not recover possession of a residential unit in any action or
proceeding or cause the tenant to quit involuntarily.	D.	The Department shall
deduct a non-refundable administration fee of $50.00 for each individual rent
payment made into the escrow account.  Only one fee shall be deducted for each
residential unit for each month.
