                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

RESTORATION OF DAMAGED OR DESTROYED BUILDINGS. (§ 16.03)

  RESTORATION OF DAMAGED OR DESTROYED BUILDINGS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)	A.	Nonconforming. 
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this article to the contrary, a building
nonconforming as to use, yards, height, number of stories, lot area, floor area,
residential density, loading space, parking, off-site signs or other
nonconforming provisions of the Los Angeles Municipal Code, which is damaged or
destroyed as a result of the declared emergency may be repaired or reconstructed
with the same nonconforming use, yards, height, number of stories, lot area,
floor area, residential density, loading space, parking or off-site signs as the
original building.  Provided, however, that repair or reconstruction shall be
commenced within two years of the date of damage or destruction and completed
within two years of obtaining a permit for reconstruction.  Provided, further,
that neither the footing nor any portion of the replacement building may
encroach into any area planned for widening or extension of existing or future
streets as determined by the Planning Department upon the recommendation of the
City Engineer.	The provisions of this section shall supersede any Interim
Control Ordinances, Interim Plan Revision Ordinances, Specific Plans (except for
the South Central Alcohol Beverage Specific Plan, Ord. No. 171,681), Section
16.05 and the City’s hillside regulations under Section 12.21A17 (except for
Paragraphs (d) and (e)).  Notwithstanding any provision in this section to the
contrary, any existing provision of law regulating the issuance of building or
demolition permits for buildings or structures currently with historical or
cultural designations on the federal, state and City lists shall remain in full
force and effect.  All Historic Preservation Overlay Zone regulations shall
continue in full force and effect with respect to the demolition, repair and
reconstruction of damaged or destroyed buildings or structures.	For purposes of
this subsection, a building or structure may only be demolished and rebuilt to
its non-conforming status, relative to the provisions of this Code, any Interim
Control Ordinances, Interim Plan Revision Ordinances, Specific Plans (except for
the South Central Alcohol Beverage Specific Plan, Ord. No. 171,681) and the
City’s hillside regulations under Section 12.21A17 (except for Paragraphs (d)
and (e)), if the building or structure either is destroyed or is “damaged”
in the following manner:	1.	Any portion of the building or structure is damaged
by earthquake, wind, flood, fire, or other disaster, in such a manner that the
structural strength or stability of the building or structure is appreciably
less than it was before the catastrophe and is less than the minimum
requirements of this Code for a new building or structure of similar structure,
purpose or location, as determined by the Department of Building and Safety;
and	2.	The cost of repair would exceed 50 percent of the replacement cost of the
building or structure, not including the value of the foundation system, as
determined by the Department of Building and Safety.	Nothing here shall be
interpreted as authorizing the continuation of a nonconforming use beyond the
time limits set forth in Section 12.23 of this Code that were applicable to the
site prior to the events which necessitated the declaration of the emergency.	If
issues of interpretation relating to the above provisions arise, the Zoning
Administrator is hereby authorized to resolve those issues in light of the scope
and purposes of this subsection.	Notwithstanding the time periods described
above or in Section 16.04.2, nonconforming properties damaged during the January
17, 1994 Northridge Earthquake shall have until January 17, 1999 to obtain
building permits for repair or reconstruction; and that work shall be completed
within two years of obtaining building permits.  The City Council may, by
resolution extend these time periods for one additional year.	B.	Conditional
Uses and Public Benefits.  The following conditional uses and public benefits
are considered to be of such importance and their expeditious replacement is of
such value to the health and safety of the community that they are hereby
granted an exemption from the plan approval process required by Section 12.24M,
provided that the structures containing these uses are rebuilt as they lawfully
existed prior to their destruction, with the same building footprint and
height.	Conditional Uses and Public Benefits	Airports or aircraft landing
fields	Correctional or penal institutions	Educational institutions	Libraries,
museums, fire or police stations or governmental enterprises	Piers, jetties,
man-made islands, floating installations	Public utilities and public service
uses and structures	Schools, elementary and high	Electric power generating
sites, plants or stations	OS Open Space Zone uses	Child care facilities or
nursery schools	Churches or houses of worship	Hospitals or sanitariums	If issues
of interpretation or administration relating to the above exemptions arise, the
Director is authorized to resolve those issues in light of the scope and
purposes of this subsection.  (Para. Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff.
10/10/00.)	C.	Notwithstanding Subsections A and B above, the following five uses
shall not be exempt from the provisions of this Code, interim control
ordinances, specific plans, and interim plan revision ordinances: establishments
dispensing alcoholic beverages for consideration, swap meets, gun shops,
pawnshops and automobile repair establishments.	D.	Highway and Collector Street
Dedication and Improvement.  For any lot identified by the City as having
sustained damage during and as a result of the situation causing the declared
emergency, the issuance of a building permit for a new development on that site
shall not require improvement of frontage for major or secondary highway and
collector street widening purposes under Section 12.37A.	Nothing here shall
prevent a property owner from voluntarily improving the right of way and
undertaking public improvements which conform to the applicable sections of this
Code.	E.	The Zoning Administrator may grant deviations of no more than ten
percent from the City’s floor area, height, yard, setback, parking, and
loading space requirements for buildings and structures damaged or destroyed in
an emergency declared by the Governor when the deviations are necessary to
accommodate the requirements of the Americans With Disabilities Act, Federal
Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988, the California Code of Regulations, Title
24, provided he or she finds:	1.	That the deviations are not likely to cause an
undue burden on nearby streets or neighboring properties;	2.	That the grant is
not likely to evoke public controversy; and	3.	That the development cannot
feasibly be designed to meet the requisite disabled access standards without the
deviations.	Prior to acting on an application for a deviation, the Zoning
Administrator shall give notice to all adjoining property owners and shall hold
a public hearing.  The Zoning Administrator may waive the public hearing if he
or she makes the two findings in Section 16.02B.  The notice and procedures
provided in Section 16.01 shall be followed for granting any deviation.
