                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SITE PLAN REVIEW. (§ 16.05)

  SITE PLAN REVIEW.
	(Renumbered and amended by Ord. No. 166,127, Eff. 9/23/90, Oper. 10/13/90.)

	A.	Purpose.  The purposes of site plan review are to promote orderly
development, evaluate and mitigate significant environmental impacts, and
promote public safety and the general welfare by ensuring that development
projects are properly related to their sites, surrounding properties, traffic
circulation, sewers, other infrastructure and environmental setting; and to
control or mitigate the development of projects which are likely to have a
significant adverse effect on the environment as identified in the City’s
environmental review process, or on surrounding properties by reason of
inadequate site planning or improvements.

	B.	Definitions.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,754, Eff. 3/5/01.)  For the purpose
of this section, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings
specified below.  Other terms used in this section shall have the meanings set
forth in Section 12.03 of this Code if defined there.

	1.	Development Project.  The construction of, addition to, or alteration of,
any building or structure, or a change of use of an existing building or
structure that requires a building permit and that results in an increase in
floor area, or a net increase in average daily vehicle trips as determined by
using trip generation factors promulgated by the Department of Transportation
for the purpose of effectuating this section.

	2.	Discretionary Approval.  An approval initiated by application of a property
owner or representative related to the use of land including, but not limited
to, a:

	(a)	zone change;

	(b)	height district change;

	(c)	supplemental use district;

	(d)	conditional use approval;

	(e)	use, area or height variance;

	(f)	parcel map;

	(g)	tentative tract map;

	(h)	coastal development permit;

	(i)	development agreement;

	(j)	adjustments;

	(k)	density bonus greater than the minimums pursuant to Government Code Section
65915;

	(l)	density transfer plan;

	(m)	exception from a geographically specific plan;

	(n)	project permit pursuant to a moratorium or interim control ordinance;

	(o)	public benefit projects; or

	(p)	Floor area deviation of less than 50,000 square feet pursuant to 14.5.7 of
Article 4.5 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,574,
Eff. 3/27/11.)

	3.	Fast-food Establishment.  Any establishment which dispenses food for
consumption on or off the premises, and which has the following
characteristics:  a limited menu, items prepared in advance or prepared or
heated quickly, no table orders, and food served in disposable wrapping or
containers.

	C.	Requirements.

	1.	  (Amended by Ord. No. 172,489, Eff. 4/16/99.)  No grading permit,
foundation permit, building permit, or use of land permit shall be issued for
any of the following development projects unless a site plan approval has first
been obtained pursuant to this section.  This provision shall apply to
individual projects for which permits are sought and also to the cumulative sum
of related or successive permits which are part of a larger project, such as
piecemeal additions to a building, or multiple buildings on a lot, as determined
by the Director.

	(a)	Any development project which creates, or results in an increase of, 50,000
gross square feet or more of nonresidential floor area.

	(b)	Any development project which creates, or results in an increase of, 50 or
more dwelling units or guest rooms, or combination thereof.

	(c)	Any change of use to a Drive-Through Fast-food Establishment or any change
of use to a Fast-food Establishment, either of which results in a net increase
of 500 or more average daily trips as determined by, and using the trip
generation factors promulgated by the Department of Transportation.

	(d)	Any change of use other than to a Drive-Through Fast-food Establishment or
to a Fast-food Establishment which results in a net increase of 1,000 or more
average daily trips as determined by, and using the trip generation factors
promulgated by the Department of Transportation.

	(e)	Any residential (including Apartment Hotel or mixed-use) building located
within the Greater Downtown Housing Incentive Area.  (Added by Ord. No.
179,076, Eff. 9/23/07.)

	This subdivision shall not apply to one-family dwellings.

	2.	Enforcement.  No grading permit foundation permit, building permit, or
certificate of occupancy shall be issued for a development project approved
under this site plan review process unless the project meets all requirements
and conditions of the site plan approval. Permits issued in error shall be
treated as specified in Section 11.02 of this Code. If the development project
approval authorized by this section is utilized, the conditions of that approval
become effective immediately. The violation of any such condition shall
constitute a violation of this chapter and shall be subject to the same
penalties as any other violation of this Code.

	D.	Exemptions.  (Amended by Ord. No. 172,489, Eff. 4/16/99.)

	1.	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  Unless made discretionary by
any other provision of law, the approval of any building permit for a
development project which does not exceed the thresholds set forth in this
subsection and Section 12.24U14 is ministerial and exempt from the requirements
of the California Environmental Quality Act.

	2.	Any development project with a still-valid discretionary approval, including
but not limited to those listed in Subsection B.2. of this section, shall be
exempt from site plan review only if the applicable decision-making body
determines in writing that the prior discretionary approval, and the required
environmental review, considered significant aspects of the approved project’s
design (such as, but not limited to, building location, height, density, use,
parking, access) and that the existing environmental documentation under the
California Environmental Quality Act is adequate for the issuance of the present
permit in light of the conditions specified in Section 21166 of the California
Public Resources Code.  The Department of City Planning may require supplements
to the environmental documentation to maintain its currentness.  The Director
is authorized to establish procedures to process determinations required under
this subdivision.  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)

	3.	Any development project located within the boundaries of an adopted
redevelopment project area shall be exempt from site plan review when:

	(a)	The Community Redevelopment Agency of the City of Los Angeles (CRA) and the
City Council have approved an owner participation agreement, a disposition and
development agreement, a loan agreement, a cooperation agreement or other
discretionary agreement for the development project; and

	(b)	The project has been considered during a public hearing conducted in
accordance with the CRA’s adopted policies and procedures for public hearings.

	(c)	The residential (including Apartment Hotel or mixed-use) building is within
the Greater Downtown Housing Incentive Area and has been determined by the
Community Redevelopment Agency (CRA) to comply with the Urban Design Standards
and Guidelines, prepared by the CRA and approved by the City Planning Commission
when the City Planning Commission finds that the guidelines are consistent with
the applicable community plans.  (Added by Ord. No. 179,076, Eff. 9/23/07.)

	Prior to the issuance of any building permit, the CRA shall certify to the
Director and the Department of Building and Safety that the required
notification, hearing and agreement have been completed.

	4.	Any development project within a specific plan area for which an EIR was
certified by the City Council not more than six years prior to the date of the
present application for a building permit.  The date of the application shall
be the date on which architectural and structural plans sufficient for a
complete plan check are accepted by the Department of Building and Safety. 
This exemption shall be applicable only if the Director determines in writing
that the EIR considered significant aspects of the approved project’s design
(such as, but not limited to, building location, height, density, use, parking,
access) and that it is adequate for the issuance of the present permit.  The
Director is hereby authorized to establish procedures to process determinations.

	5.	Any development project on a motion picture and/or television production lot
that is industrially or commercially zoned and is enclosed by a minimum six foot
high wall or other barrier (such as building walls, fences, topographical
barrier, etc.) which separates the facility and the development from adjacent
properties.  However, all new office uses shall be directly related to motion
picture and/or television production and shall not be rented or leased to other
entities not directly related to motion picture and/or television production
uses.

	(6)	Adaptive Reuse Projects in the Downtown Project Area pursuant to Section
12.22A26.  (Added by Ord. No. 172,571, Eff. 6/3/99.)

	(7)	Any residential (including Apartment Hotel or mixed use) building located
within the Greater Downtown Housing Incentive Area that is subject to Section
12.22 A.30. of this Code.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,557, Eff. 3/15/11.)

	E.	Directors Authority.

	1.	The Director or his/her designee shall have the authority to approve,
conditionally approve, or deny site plan approval for development projects
specified in Section 16.05C above in accordance with the purpose and provisions
of this section.

	2.	In granting site plan approval, the Director may condition and/or modify the
project, or select an alternative project, as he or she deems necessary to
implement the general or specific plan and to mitigate significant adverse
effects of the development project on the environment and surrounding areas.

	3.	The Director is authorized to designate one or more members of the
professional staff of the Department of City Planning to perform any of the
Director’s duties under this section. The Director shall establish
administrative methods, guidelines, procedures, and forms as may be necessary to
conduct the review and render a decision expeditiously, prior to processing any
site plan review application.

	4.	The Director shall not approve or conditionally approve a site plan review
for a development project unless he or she does one of the following in
accordance with the requirements of CEQA and the State and City CEQA Guidelines:

	a.	Approve a proposed Negative Declaration or Mitigated Negative Declaration.

	b.	Certify completion of an EIR.

	F.	In granting an approval, the Director, or the Area Planning Commission on
appeal, shall find:  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,095, Eff. 5/7/12.)

	1.	that the project is in substantial conformance with the purposes, intent and
provisions of the General Plan, applicable community plan, and any applicable
specific plan;

	2.	that the project consists of an arrangement of buildings and structures
(including height, bulk and setbacks), off-street parking facilities, loading
areas, lighting, landscaping, trash collection, and other such pertinent
improvements, that is or will be compatible with existing and future development
on adjacent properties and neighboring properties; and

	3.	that any residential project provides recreational and service amenities to
improve habitability for its residents and minimize impacts on neighboring
properties.

	G.	Procedure.

	1.	Site Plan Review Application.  Application for the site plan review shall
be filed in any public office of the Department of City Planning, upon such
forms and accompanied by applicable fees, a site plan drawn to scale, and other
information prescribed by the Director for that purpose. The application shall
be verified by either the property owner, lessee, owner in escrow, or a legally
authorized agent.

	2.	Environmental Review.  As part of the application for site plan review, the
applicant shall file necessary forms and information for environmental review as
prescribed by the Director. The Director, or his/her designee, shall cause to be
prepared, concurrently with the review and approval of the site plan, the
required environmental studies and notices for the project; except that in the
adopted redevelopment project areas, the CRA shall assume lead agency
responsibilities for environmental review of all projects subject to the
provisions of this section and shall prepare the required environmental studies
and notices.

	3.	Notice – Hearing – Time Limits.

	a.	The Director shall refer all completed applications for site plan review to
affected City departments for their review and report. For projects in adopted
redevelopment project areas, the completed applications shall be sent to the
Administrator of the CRA for review and report as to conformity with the adopted
Redevelopment Plan applicable to the project. Responses shall be returned within
fifteen (15) days after receipt, or such other period agreed to by the Director
and the affected agency or department.

	b.	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,992, Eff. 7/6/01.)  If the Director finds that the
matter may have a significant effect on neighboring properties, the Director
shall set the matter for public hearing.  If the application is set for public
hearing, written notice of the hearing shall be sent by First Class Mail at
least 15 days prior to the hearing to the applicant, owners and tenants of the
property involved, owners and tenants of all property within 100 feet of the
boundary of the subject site, the City Councilmembers representing the area in
which the property is located, the Administrator of the CRA for projects within
an adopted redevelopment project area, and any organization representing
property owners or the community in the project vicinity if they request in
writing to be notified.  Notice shall also be given by at least one publication
in a newspaper of general circulation in the City, designated for that purpose
by the City Clerk, not less than 15 days prior to the date of the hearing.

	c.	The Director shall grant, conditionally grant or deny site plan approval
within sixty (60) days after:

	(1)	the date of filing of an application, or

	(2)	where an EIR is required, the date the EIR is certified as complete.

	This time limit may be extended up to forty-five (45) days by mutual consent of
the applicant and the Director. The time limit shall also be extended if
necessary to prepare and process an EIR, as provided in Section 12.25A of this
Code.

	d.	The Director shall send notice of the determination to the applicant and the
interested parties listed in Section 16.05G3(b) of the determination by First
Class Mail. Failure to receive notice shall not invalidate any action taken
pursuant to this section.  (Amended by Ord. No. 172,489, Eff. 4/16/99.)

	4.	Determination Effective – Appeal.  The determination of the Director
shall become final after an elapsed period of fifteen (15) days from the date of
mailing of the determination to the applicant, unless a written appeal is filed
within such period as provided in Subsection 16.05H. The Director shall notify
the Department of Building and Safety of the final approval of site plan review.

	5.	Failure to Act – Transfer of Jurisdiction.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,374,
Eff. 8/3/00.)  If the Director fails to make a decision on an application
within the time limit specified in this subsection, the applicant may file a
request for transfer of jurisdiction to the Area Planning Commission, in which
case the Director shall lose jurisdiction. The Area Planning Commission shall
consider the matter following the same procedures and limitations as are
applicable to the Director.  A request for transfer of jurisdiction may be
filed in any public office of the Department of City Planning.

	6.	(Deleted by Ord. No. 182,106, Eff. 5/20/12.)

	H.	Appeals.

	1.	Authority.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  The
Area Planning Commission of the area in which the property is located shall have
the authority to decide appeals from site plan review decisions made by the
Director.  Prior to deciding an appeal, the Area Planning Commission shall hold
a hearing or direct a hearing officer to do so.

	2.	Filing an Appeal.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  The applicant, any officer, board, department, or bureau of the City,
or any interested person aggrieved by the decision of the Director may file an
appeal to the Area Planning Commission.  Appeals shall be in writing and shall
set forth specifically the reasons why the decision should not be upheld. 
Appeals shall be filed in any public office of the Department of City Planning,
upon required forms and accompanied by applicable fees, within 15 days of the
mailing of the decision to the applicant.  An appeal not properly or timely
filed shall not be accepted.

	3.	Hearing Notice.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper.
7/1/00.)  Upon receipt of the appeal application, the Area Planning Commission
Secretary shall set the matter for a public hearing to be held within 30 days of
the filing of the appeal.  The Secretary shall give notice of the hearing to
the appellant and to all the other parties specified in Subsection G.3.(b)
above, within the time and in the manner specified in that subsection.

	4.	Decision.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  The
Area Planning Commission shall render its decision in writing within 15 days
after completion of the hearing.  The Area Planning Commission may sustain or
reverse any decision of the Director, and may establish additional conditions to
conform with the findings required in Subsection F.  The decision shall be in
writing and based upon evidence in the record, including testimony and documents
produced at the hearing before the Area Planning Commission, and supported by
additional findings as may be required by Section 16.05 F. above.  If the Area
Planning Commission fails to act within the time specified, the action of the
Director shall be final.

	5.	Notice.  The Secretary shall notify the Department of Building and Safety
of final appeal decisions.

	I.	Alternative Thresholds.  (Amended by Ord. No. 172,489, Eff. 4/16/99.)  A
different threshold from that indicated in Section 16.05 C. of this Code may be
established within a Community Plan or Specific Plan, or portion thereof, when
specifically stated in the plan text and only when the plan area contains one or
more of the following:

	1.	A transportation impacted area;

	2.	An environmentally sensitive area;

	3.	An historically sensitive area; or

	4.	Any other area of special significance which is clearly identified as to its
significance and the need for a different threshold level.

	J.	Severability.  If any provision or clause of this ordinance or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held to be unconstitutional
or otherwise invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity
shall not affect other ordinance provisions, clauses or applications thereof
which can be implemented without the invalid provision, clause or application,
and to this end the provisions and clauses of this ordinance are declared to be
severable.
