                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

LONG-TERM TEMPORARY USES. (§ 16.01)

  LONG-TERM TEMPORARY USES.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)	A.	Authority of the
Zoning Administrator.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code to the
contrary, the Zoning Administrator shall have the authority to approve the use
of a lot in any zone for the temporary use of property which will aid in the
immediate restoration of an area adversely impacted by a severe fire, storm,
earthquake, similar natural disaster, or a civil or military disturbance, and
declared by the Governor as an emergency area if the Zoning Administrator
finds:	1.	That the nature and short duration of the proposed temporary use
assures that the proposed use will not be materially detrimental to the
character of development in the immediate neighborhood;	2.	That the proposed use
will not adversely affect the implementation of the General Plan or any
applicable specific plan; and	3.	That the proposed use will contribute in a
positive fashion to the reconstruction and recovery of areas adversely impacted
during the emergency.	In making a determination pursuant to this section, the
Zoning Administrator shall balance the public interest and benefit to be derived
from the proposed temporary use against the degree, significance of, and
temporary nature of the inconvenience to be caused in the area where the
temporary use is located.  The Zoning Administrator may promulgate regulations
and guidelines as are necessary and proper to administer the provisions of this
article.	B.	Conditions of Approval.  In approving the location of any temporary
use, the Zoning Administrator may impose those conditions he or she deems
necessary to protect the peaceful and quiet enjoyment of nearby properties. 
The Zoning Administrator shall also require the posting of a completion bond, or
other guarantee satisfactory to the Zoning Administrator, to cover the cost of
the removal of any improvements made to a site or cleaning of the site after
termination of the temporary authorized use.	Furthermore, the Zoning
Administrator shall require termination of the temporary use within one year
from the date of the approval of the temporary use, the removal of all temporary
improvements on the site, and the restoration of the site to a permitted use
within a reasonable period of time determined by the Zoning Administrator. 
Approval of any application for a temporary use shall not result in any vested
or nonconforming rights to carry on the temporary use after the term
authorized.	The design and improvement provisions of Sections 12.21A5 and 6 and
the yard requirements of Chapter 1 of this Code shall not apply to temporary
permits for public parking in the R Zones.  However, in approving permits, the
Zoning Administrator may impose those conditions as the Zoning Administrator
deems necessary to protect the peaceful and quiet enjoyment of the subject and
nearby properties.	C.	Revocation.  The Zoning Administrator may suspend or
revoke any temporary use approval, if the Administrator determines that the
temporary use bears no significant relation to the reconstruction and recovery
of areas adversely impacted by the emergency, or that the conditions imposed on
any temporary use approval have not been complied with, or that an unreasonable
level of interference with the peaceful enjoyment of neighboring properties is
created by the conduct of any authorized activity.	Prior to the revocation of a
temporary use approval, the Zoning Administrator shall give written notice to
the record owner or lessee to appear within five days or less (if justified by a
threat to public health and safety) at a time and place fixed by the Zoning
Administrator and show cause why the temporary use approval should not be
revoked or why further conditions should not be imposed.	A determination of the
Zoning Administrator pursuant to this subsection may be appealed to the Area
Planning Commission on a form prescribed by the Department of City Planning in
accordance with the procedures described in this section.	D.	Other Permits and
Licenses.  This article shall not, except as stated here, modify or affect in
any way the duty of any applicant to obtain any other permit or license which
may be required under any other provision of this Code or state
law.	E.	Application.  An application to permit any temporary use referred to in
this article shall be filed with the Department of City Planning upon forms and
accompanied by data as the Department of City Planning may require.	The
application may be filed by an owner or a lessee and shall be verified by the
applicant attesting to the truth and correctness of all facts and information
presented with, or contained in the application and shall also be signed by the
owner of record of any site where the proposed temporary use will be located.	A
copy of any application so filed shall be transmitted by the Department of City
Planning to the Councilmember of the district in which the proposed use would be
located and to the Department of Transportation for their information.	F.	Notice
and Hearing.  Upon the filing of a verified application, the Zoning
Administrator shall set the matter for public hearing.  Notice of the time,
place, and purpose of the hearing shall be given by mailing a written notice at
least 14 days prior to the date of the hearing to the applicant, to the owner of
the subject property, to adjoining and abutting property owners, and to property
owners directly across the street or alley from the subject property.  For this
notice the following shall be used: the last known name and address of the
property owners as shown upon the records of the City Engineer or the records of
the County Assessor.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,595, Eff. 4/10/11.)	An
application for a temporary use shall be set for public hearing unless the
Zoning Administrator makes written findings, attached to the file involved, that
the requested temporary use:	1.	will not have a significant effect on adjoining
properties or on the immediate neighborhood; or	2.	is not likely to evoke public
controversy.	G.	Time Limit.  The Zoning Administrator shall make a
determination within 30 days from the filing of a verified application.  This
time limit may be extended by mutual written consent of the applicant and Zoning
Administrator.	H.	Fee.  An application for an approval pursuant to this section
shall not require any filing fee.	I.	Decisions by the Zoning Administrator. 
Decisions by the Zoning Administrator shall be supported by written findings of
fact based upon written or oral statements and documents presented to the Zoning
Administrator, which may include photographs, maps and plans, together with the
results of the Zoning Administrator’s investigations.  Upon making a
decision, the Zoning Administrator shall forthwith mail a copy of his or her
written findings and decisions to the applicant, and to the other persons who
were required to be notified under Subsection F.	J.	Decision Effective and
Appeal.  The decision of the Zoning Administrator shall become final after an
elapsed period of ten days from the date of mailing a copy of the written
findings and decision to the applicant.  During this period, any person
aggrieved by the decision may file a written appeal to the Area Planning
Commission.  The appeals shall set forth specifically the points at issue, the
reasons for the appeal, and how the appellant believes there was an error or
abuse of discretion by the Zoning Administrator.  No fee shall be charged for
this appeal.	K.	Failure to Act.  If the Zoning Administrator fails to make a
decision on a temporary land use application within the time limit specified in
Subsection C of this section, then the applicant may file a request in the
Office of Zoning Administration for a transfer of jurisdiction to the Area
Planning Commission and for a decision by the Area Planning Commission on the
original application.  In that case, the Zoning Administrator shall lose
jurisdiction and the Area Planning Commission shall assume jurisdiction,
provided, however, that the matter may be remanded to the Zoning Administrator
or the Area Planning Commission may accept the applicant’s request for
withdrawal of the transfer of jurisdiction.  In either case, the Zoning
Administrator shall regain jurisdiction for the time and purpose specified by
the Area Planning Commission.	L.	Transfer of Jurisdiction.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  When considering any matter transferred to its
jurisdiction pursuant to Section 16.02 because of the failure of the Zoning
Administrator to act, the Area Planning Commission shall make its decision
within 30 days after the request to transfer jurisdiction is filed.  All
decisions shall become final on the date of mailing a copy of the Area Planning
Commission’s decision to the applicant.	M.	Record on Appeal.  Within five
days of receipt of the filing of an appeal, the file of the Zoning Administrator
appealed from and the appeal shall be delivered to the Area Planning
Commission.  At any time prior to the action by the Area Planning Commission on
the appeal, the Zoning Administrator may submit supplementary pertinent
information he or she deems necessary or as may be requested by the Area
Planning Commission.	N.	Hearing Date-Notice.  Upon receipt of the appeal, the
Area Planning Commission shall set the matter for hearing and give notice by
mail of the time, place and purpose of the hearing to the appellant, to the
applicant, to the owner or owners of the property involved, to the Zoning
Administrator and to any other interested party who has requested in writing to
be so notified.  This notice shall be in writing and mailed at least five days
prior to the hearing.	O.	Hearing Date-Continuance.  Upon the date set for the
hearing, the Area Planning Commission shall hear the appeal, unless, for cause,
the Area Planning Commission shall on that date continue the matter.  No notice
of continuance need be given if the order to continue is announced at the time
for which the hearing was set.	P.	Decision.  When considering an appeal from an
action by the Zoning Administrator, the Area Planning Commission shall make its
decision within 15 days (in the case of a revocation, within 10 days) after the
expiration of the appeal period, or within an extended period of time as may be
mutually agreed upon in writing by the applicant and the Area Planning
Commission.  The Area Planning Commission shall base its decision only
upon:	(i)	evidence introduced at the hearing, or hearings, if any, before the
Zoning Administrator, on the issue;	(ii)	the record, findings and determination
of the Zoning Administrator; and	(iii)	the consideration of arguments, if any,
presented to the Area Planning Commission orally or in writing.	If an applicant
or aggrieved person wishes to offer into the proceedings any new evidence in
connection with the matter, a written summary of that evidence, together with a
statement as to why that evidence could not reasonably have been presented to
the Zoning Administrator shall be filed with the Area Planning Commission prior
to the hearing.  If the Area Planning Commission fails to act on any appeal
within the time limit specified in the subsection, the determination of the
Zoning Administrator shall be final.	The Area Planning Commission may modify or
reverse the ruling, decision or determination appealed from only upon making
findings indicating how the action of the Zoning Administrator was in error or
constituted an abuse of discretion and shall make specific findings supporting
any modification or reversal.  The decision of the Area Planning Commission
shall be final as of the date of its determination on the matter.  After making
a decision, a copy of the findings and determination shall forthwith be placed
on file in the City Planning Department and a copy of the determination shall be
furnished to the applicant, the appellant and the Department of Building and
Safety.
