                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

GREEN BUILDING PROGRAM. (§ 16.10)

  GREEN BUILDING PROGRAM.
	(Added by Ord. No. 179,820, Eff. 5/29/08.)	A.	Establishment of Program and
Purpose.  There is established a  which shall be administered by the Green
Building Team pursuant to the provisions of Section 16.11 of this Code.  The
purpose of the Green Building Program is to reduce the use of natural resources,
create healthier living environments and minimize the negative impacts of
development on local, regional, and global ecosystems.  The program consists of
a Standard of Sustainability and Standard of Sustainable Excellence.  The
program addresses five key areas:	1.	Site:  location, site planning,
landscaping, storm water management, construction and demolition
recycling;	2.	Water Efficiency:  efficient fixtures, wastewater reuse, and
efficient irrigation;	3.	Energy &#038; Atmosphere:  energy efficiency, and
clean/renewable energy;	4.	Materials &#038; Resources:  materials reuse,
efficient building systems, and use of recycled and rapidly renewable materials;
and	5.	Indoor Environmental Quality:  improved indoor air quality, increased
natural lighting, and improved thermal comfort/control.	B.	Building Permit
Issuance.  No building permit shall be issued for the following categories of
Projects unless the Project meets the intent of the criteria for certification
pursuant to Subsections D. or E. of this section as determined by the Department
of City Planning. 	1.	A new non-residential building or structure of 50,000
gross square feet or more of floor area; or	2.	A new mixed use or residential
building of 50,000 gross square feet or more of floor area in excess of six
stories; or	3.	A new mixed use or residential building of six or fewer stories
consisting of at least 50 dwelling units in a building, which has at least
50,000 gross square feet of floor area, and in which at least 80 percent of the
building’s floor area is dedicated to residential uses; or	4.	The alteration
or rehabilitation of 50,000 gross square feet or more of floor area in an
existing non-residential building for which construction costs exceed a
valuation of 50 percent of the replacement cost of the existing building;
or	5.	The alteration of at least 50 dwelling units in an existing mixed use or
residential building, which has at least 50,000 gross square feet of floor area,
for which construction costs exceed a valuation of 50 percent of the replacement
cost of the existing building.	C.	Definitions.  For the purpose of this
section, the following words and phrases are defined as follows:	1.	Historic
Resource.  A building, structure or site that is any of the following:  a City
Historic- Cultural Monument; listed in or formally determined eligible for the
National Register of Historic Places or California Register of Historical
Resources; a Contributing Element to a Historic Preservation Overlay Zone
(HPOZ); or identified in an adopted historic resources survey as eligible for
designation.	2.	LEED®.  Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design, a
rating system put forth by the U.S. Green Building Council that is the
nationally accepted benchmark for the design, construction and operation of high
performance green buildings.	3.	LEED®-AP.  A person who has been designated a
LEED® Accredited Professional by the Green Building Certification Institute
(GBCI).	4.	LEED® Design Review.  The review of eligible credits by the USGBC
using the project’s 100 percent construction documents, which are sufficient
for a complete plan check by the Department of Building and Safety.  The USGBC
will review and mark each credit including credits for “Innovation and
Design” as either Credit Achievement Anticipated or Credit
Denied.	5.	Project.  The construction of, addition to, or alteration of any
building or structure that requires a building permit and meets the criteria
established in Subsection B. of this section.	6.	USGBC.  The U.S. Green
Building Council.	D.	Standard of Sustainability.	1.	Rating System.  The
applicant shall demonstrate that the Project meets the intent of the criteria
for certification at the LEED® certified level.  The Project may be submitted
for compliance in whichever LEED® rating system the applicant deems most
suitable to the Project type:  LEED®-NC (New Construction), EB (Existing
Buildings), CI (Commercial Interiors), Core &#038; Shell, or Homes.  The
Project shall use the version of the rating system in effect on the date that
plans are submitted to the Department of Building and Safety and a fee is paid,
unless the applicant has elected to register the Project with the USGBC, in
which case the Project may use the rating system’s version which was in effect
at the time the Project registered.  Formal certification by the USGBC is not
required.	2.	Procedures.  No building permit shall be issued for any Project
subject to the provisions of this subsection unless the Project has been
reviewed and the plans are stamped approved by the Director  for LEED® 
compliance.  The review shall be based on Guidelines established by the
Director and revised as necessary.  In order to obtain this  approval, the
applicant shall provide:	a.	A LEED® checklist, including points allocated to
the “Innovation and Design” category, which demonstrates that the Project
meets the selected LEED® Rating System at the “Certified” level or
higher;	b.	A signed declaration from the LEED®- AP member of the Project team,
stating that the plans and plan details have been reviewed, and that the Project
meets the intent of the criteria for certification of the selected LEED® Rating
System at the “Certified” level or higher;	c.	A complete set of plans
stamped and signed by a licensed architect or engineer that includes a copy of
the preliminary checklist and signed declaration identified in Paragraphs a. and
b. of this subdivision and identifies the measures being provided for LEED®
compliance.  Each plan sheet must also be signed by a LEED®-AP verifying that
the plans are consistent with the submitted checklist; and	d.	The fee set forth
in Section 19.01 Y.  A Project may be exempt from paying the fee if the
following additional information is provided:	(1)	Documentation that the Project
has registered with the USGBC’s LEED® program and that the required fees have
been paid to USGBC; and	(2)	Documentation that the Project has successfully
completed the USGBC’s LEED® Design Review process.	3.	Termination.  The
provisions of Subsections A., B., C. and D. shall be repealed and terminate on
December 31, 2010.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,479, Eff. 12/27/10.)	E.	Standard of
Sustainable Excellence.  Projects that voluntarily commit to LEED®
Certification at the Silver Level or higher shall receive expedited processing
from the Department of City Planning.	1.	Procedures for Expedited Processing. 
An applicant seeking to obtain expedited processing of discretionary
entitlements from the Department of City Planning shall provide:	a.	A signed
declaration from the property owner, owner in escrow, or a legally authorized
agent as well as the LEED®-AP;	b.	Documentation that the Project has registered
with the USGBC and that the required fees have been paid to USGBC;	c.	The
Project’s preliminary LEED® checklist that demonstrates that the number of
points that the project intends to pursue will make it eligible to obtain LEED®
Silver Certification. 	2.	Building Permit Issuance.  No building permit shall
be issued for any Project that has received expedited services specified in
Subdivision 1. above unless the project has been reviewed and the plans are
stamped approved by the Director for LEED compliance.  The review shall be
based on Guidelines established by the Director and revised as necessary.  In
order to obtain this clearance, the applicant shall provide: 	a.	A LEED®
checklist, including points allocated to the “Innovation and Design”
category, from a USGBC LEED®-AP, which demonstrates that the Project meets the
selected LEED® Rating System at the “Silver” level or higher;	b.	A signed
declaration from the LEED®-AP stating that the plans and plan details have been
reviewed, and that the Project meets the intent of the criteria for
certification of the selected LEED® Rating System at the “Silver” level or
higher;	c.	A complete set of plans stamped and signed by a licensed architect or
engineer that includes a copy of the preliminary checklist and signed
declaration identified in Paragraphs a. and b. of this subdivision and
identifies the measures being provided for LEED® Silver or higher
Certification.  Each plan sheet must also be signed by a LEED®-AP verifying
that the plans are consistent with the submitted checklist; and	d.	The fee set
forth in Section 19.01 Y.  A Project may be exempt from paying the fee if
documentation is provided that the Project has successfully completed the
USGBC’s LEED® Design Review process.	3.	Termination and Replacement.  The
reference to the U.S. Green Building Council’s (USGBC) Leadership in Energy
and Environmental Design (LEED®) Certification at the Silver level or higher
described in Subsection E. shall no longer apply to projects filed on or after
January 1, 2011.  Projects filed on or after January 1, 2011, must satisfy LA
Green Building Code, as defined in Los Angeles Municipal Code Section
99.01.101.1, Tier 1 or higher in order to obtain expedited processing as
described in Subsection 5.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,479, Eff.
12/27/10.)	F.	Exemptions.  The provisions of this section shall not apply to
any of the following Projects:	1.	A Historic Resource, if the Department of City
Planning finds that full LEED® compliance would require alterations that
conflict with the Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for the Treatment of
Historic Properties.  In those cases, a LEED®-AP shall assert in writing that
the Project has incorporated all other reasonable measures to achieve LEED®
compliance, while avoiding adverse impacts to the Historic Resource’s
character-defining features.	2.	Any Project where plans were accepted by the
Department of Building and Safety for plan check and the appropriate fee is paid
prior to November 1, 2008, provided no changes were made to the Project that
would increase the floor area by more than five percent.  This exception shall
no longer be valid if construction is not commenced within one year of the date
of issuance of the permit.	3.	Any entitlement application for a Project filed
and deemed complete with the exception of CEQA review prior to November 1, 2008,
provided no changes are made to the application that would increase the floor
area by more than five percent.	4.	Any residential or mixed use Project of six
or fewer stories where plans were accepted by the Department of Building and
Safety for plan check and the appropriate fee is paid prior to May 1, 2009,
provided no changes were made to the Project which increase the floor area by
more than five percent.  This exception shall no longer be valid if
construction is not commenced within one year of the date of issuance of the
permit. 	5.	Any entitlement application for a residential or mixed use Project
of six or fewer stories filed and deemed complete with the exception of CEQA
review prior to May 1, 2009, provided no changes are made to the application
that would increase the floor area by more than five percent.	6.	Termination. 
The provisions of Section 16.10 shall be repealed and terminate on December 31,
2010.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,479, Eff. 12/27/10.)
