                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

RIGHT OF ENTRY. (§ 161.601)

  RIGHT OF ENTRY.
	(Added by Ord. No. 173,011, Eff. 1/30/00.)	Whenever it is necessary to make an
inspection to enforce any of the provisions of or perform any duty imposed by
this article or other applicable law, or whenever the General Manager has
reasonable cause to believe that there exists in any building or dwelling unit
any violation of the provisions of this article or other applicable law, set
forth in Section 161.401, or any condition which makes the building or dwelling
unit hazardous, unsafe or dangerous, the General Manager is hereby authorized to
enter the premises at any reasonable time and to inspect it and perform any duty
imposed upon the General Manager by this article or other applicable law.	This
authority shall be subject to the following limitations:	(1)	If the premises is
occupied, the General Manager shall first present proper credentials to the
occupant and request entry explaining his reasons; and	(2)	If the premises is
unoccupied, the General Manager shall first make a reasonable effort to locate
the owner or other person having charge or control of the premises and request
entry, explaining the reasons.	If entry is refused or cannot be obtained, the
General Manager shall have recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure
lawful entry and inspect the premises, including but not limited to securing an
inspection warrant pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure Sections
1822.50 through 1822.57.  The General Manager shall provide notice that a
warrant has been issued to both the owner and the occupant at least 24 hours
before the warrant is executed, unless the judge finds that immediate execution
is reasonably necessary in the circumstances shown.	Notwithstanding the
foregoing, if the General Manager has reasonable cause to believe that the
building or dwelling unit is so hazardous, unsafe or dangerous as to require
immediate inspection to safeguard the public health or safety, the General
Manager shall have the right to immediately enter and inspect the premises and
may use any reasonable means required to effect the entry and make an
inspection, whether the premises is occupied or unoccupied and whether or not
permission to inspect has been obtained.  If the premises is occupied, the
General Manager shall first present proper credentials to the occupant and
demand entry, explaining the reasons and the purpose of the inspection.
