                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DECISION. (§ 161.805)

  DECISION.
	(Added by Ord. No. 173,011, Eff. 1/30/00.)	After considering all relevant
evidence and arguments, the General Manager shall issue a written decision
within ten working days of the hearing.  This decision is to be supported by
written findings which separately provide the basis for each order imposed. 
Where it is determined that the violation has not been corrected, the General
Manager may make any of the following orders, as appropriate:	(1)	Order that the
violation be referred to the City Attorney’s office for prosecution.	(2)	Order
a rent reduction.	(3)	Order the building or dwelling units be  accepted into
REAP.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,810, Eff. 4/16/01.)  	(4)	Order the building
or dwelling units be accepted into the Urgent Repair Program or any successor
programs.	(5)	Impose inspection fees pursuant to Division 9 of this article for
all inspections after the second until compliance is attained, and for any
periodic inspection ordered to take place in less than three years.	(6)	Order
that, after compliance has been obtained, the next periodic inspection be
conducted within three to 24 months, depending on the severity of the
violations, the history of the property, the criteria set forth in Section
161.602.1 and any other criteria set forth by regulation indicating a risk of
recurring violations.	(7)	If the violation poses a present, imminent, extreme
and immediate hazard or danger to life or limb, health or safety, or if the
building or dwelling unit has been ordered vacated by any government agency,
order that the owner pay relocation assistance to the tenants, in the amounts
and following the procedures set forth in Section 151.09G and any accompanying
regulations, regardless of whether the building or dwelling unit is subject to
the RSO.	(8)	Order the person or entity who owns, manages or controls the
premises to attend property management training as set forth in Section 154.00,
et seq.	(9)	Order that the property be referred to the Receivership
Program.	(10)	Issue an Order of Abatement and have it recorded against the
property.
