                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

APPEALS. (§ 162.06)

  APPEALS.
	(Added by Ord. No. 173,810, Eff. 4/16/01.)	A.	Notice of Appeal.  The landlord
may request a hearing before the General Manager to appeal any decision placing
a unit or building into REAP.  The appeal must be filed in writing and received
by the Department within 15 calendar days of the date of mailing of the
decision.  The appeal must be on a form provided by the Department and set
forth:	1.	The grounds for appeal; and	2.	The names and current rents of all of
the tenants in units subject to REAP;	If the decision is not appealed within the
15-day appeal period, it will be final.	B.	Stay Pending Appeal.  If the
landlord appeals to the General Manager, the decision shall be stayed pending
the appeal.	C.	Hearing.	1.	The General Manager’s hearing shall be set and held
within 30 days of the filing of the appeal following the procedures set forth in
Division 8 of Article 1 of Chapter XVI of this Code.  To the extent feasible,
the hearing shall be coordinated with any General Manager’s hearing scheduled
under Section 161.801 et seq.  The Department shall investigate whether there
are other outstanding Orders against the building and, if so, shall provide
notice of the hearing to any additional tenants affected by those
Orders.	2.	Tenants or Enforcement Agencies may present proof  that the
violations specified in the Order, at the time the Order was issued, affected
additional units that have not been inspected, or that there are additional
outstanding Orders affecting the same or different units of the building that
were not included in the original decision.	3.	The landlord may present proof
that a rent reduction is not appropriate because the violations were caused by
the tenants.  The burden shall be on the landlord to prove that the tenants
caused the violations.	4.	The landlord, any tenant or the Enforcement Agency may
present proof that, due to extreme circumstances, acceptance into REAP or the
rent reduction would jeopardize the health or safety of the tenants.  The
landlord has the burden of demonstrating unique, extreme circumstances that make
that relief appropriate.  The Department shall scrutinize such a request with
particular caution when it is not supported by the tenants or the Enforcement
Agency.	D.	Decision.	1.	The General Manager shall issue a decision, as set forth
in Division 8 of Article 1 of Chapter XVI of this Code, within ten working days
of the hearing.	2.	The General Manager may affirm, modify, or reverse the
determination of the Department.  The General Manager shall find that each of
the factors set forth in Section 162.03 exists in affirming the acceptance of a
building into REAP.  The General Manager may modify or reverse the
determination of the Department only upon making written findings setting forth
specifically either	(i)	that the action of the Department was in error or
constituted an abuse of discretion, or	(ii)	there is new, relevant information
which was not previously submitted either at the time of the referral to REAP
due to mistake, surprise, inadvertence, lack of notice, or excusable neglect,
which information supports a modification or reversal.	3.	If the landlord was
already in compliance with the Order before the rent reduction effective date,
the decision shall be reversed.  If the landlord complies with the Order after
the appeal is filed but before the hearing on the appeal, the rent reduction may
be imposed retroactively for any rental payments that were due between the date
set forth in the original decision and the date that the violations were
corrected.  If the decision is upheld on appeal, the rent reduction shall be
effective retroactive to the date set forth in the original decision.	4.	If, at
the hearing, a tenant or an Enforcement Agency presents proof that the
violations specified in the Order, at the time the Order was issued, affected
additional units that had not been inspected, or that there are additional
outstanding Orders affecting the building that were not included in the original
decision, the General Manager may issue a further rent reduction or include
additional units in REAP.  Further rent reductions may be made effective
immediately or may be made effective following the expiration date of the
additional Orders if those orders have not been complied with by that date.  If
the building is not covered by the RSO, the rent reduction shall not be
effective until at least 60 days from the date of the Order.	Prior to
determining that additional units not included in the original decision pursuant
to Section 162.04D will be subject to inclusion in REAP or rent reduction, the
General Manager shall, if requested by the landlord, continue the hearing as to
the additional units in order to provide the landlord with notice and an
opportunity to be heard.  The General Manager may issue a decision as to the
rental units included in the original decision prior to the continued hearing
date or may wait and issue one decision covering all of the units.	5.	If the
General Manager finds that the violations are of such a nature or extent that
they are likely to be found in or affect several units, the General Manager may
order the rent reduction extended to additional units that were not included in
the original decision without proof of an outstanding Order for those units. 
The decision shall set forth the findings justifying extending the rent
reduction to additional units.	Prior to determining that additional units not
included in the original decision pursuant to Section 162.04D will be subject
rent reduction, the General Manager shall, if requested by the landlord,
continue the hearing as to the additional units in order to provide the landlord
with notice and an opportunity to be heard.  The General Manager may issue a
decision as to the rental units included in the original decision prior to the
continued hearing date or may wait and issue one decision covering all of the
units.	6.	The General Manager may also refer the building for a periodic
inspection pursuant to Section 161.602.1.  If the building has already had a
periodic inspection within the past three years, the General Manager may order
the landlord to pay an inspection fee pursuant to Section 161.901.	7.	Under
extreme circumstances, the Department may delay, reduce, stay or deny the rent
reduction or escrow account, notwithstanding that the conditions set forth in
Section 162.03 have been met, when to do otherwise would jeopardize the health
or safety of the tenants or would violate the constitutional rights of any
person.  The mere reduction of income available to make repairs shall not
constitute extreme circumstances.  If the Department grants that relief, the
decision shall set forth the circumstances supporting it in detail.	E.	Appeal of
General Manager’s Decision.  The landlord, any tenant or the Enforcement
Agency may appeal to the Board within ten calendar days after service of the
General Manager’s decision, following the procedures set forth in Division 10
of Article 1 of Chapter XVI and Section 162.06A.  An application fee required
pursuant to the provisions of Section 161.1002.2 may be waived by the Department
in accordance with the standards and procedures set forth in the provisions of
Section 151.14 C.  (Last Sentence Added, Ord. No. 177,634, Eff. 7/22/06.)	If
the appeal is denied, the Appeals Board shall not waive any retroactive
reduction imposed pursuant to Section 162.06D3.	If the General Manager’s
decision imposed additional rent reductions that were not included in the
original acceptance, and if the violations on which those reductions were based
had not been corrected by the time the appeal was filed, then the Appeals Board
shall impose a retroactive rent reduction as set forth in Section 162.06D3.
