                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

TERMINATION OF REAP. (§ 162.08)

  TERMINATION OF REAP.
	(Added by Ord. No. 173,810, Eff. 4/16/01.)	A.	After receiving notice that all
orders have been complied with and all violations have been corrected, including
but not limited to those that caused the placement into REAP and any subsequent
orders or violations, the Department may recommend to the City Council the
termination of the rent reductions if it finds:	1.	All orders affecting the
units and the common areas have been signed off by the appropriate Enforcement
Agency; and	2.	There are no other outstanding Orders affecting the units or
common areas of the building as set forth in Section 162.03 iii.	B.	The
Department may also review an application from a landlord to terminate the rent
reduction for certain units, notwithstanding the continuation of violations
affecting other units, if the conditions set forth in Subsection A are met for
those units.  The landlord may only submit one application for each property. 
The Department shall scrutinize with particular care any application, and
recommend termination only if it finds that only minor violations remain in the
other units.	C.	The Department may recommend termination of the escrow account
if, in addition to the findings in Subsection A or B, it finds that any
outstanding and non-appealable electric service and/or water charges pertaining
to the property have been paid to the satisfaction of the Department of Water
and Power of the City of Los Angeles.	D.	If the City Council terminates the
escrow account, any funds in that account shall be paid in the following
order:	1.	Any administrative fees authorized in Sections 162.07 B.1. and 162.12
that have not yet been collected.  For units in which the tenant has not made
individual rent payments into the escrow account, the administrative fee of
$50.00 per unit per month may be collected from the escrow account only upon
termination of the escrow account.  Before funds in the escrow account are paid
for administrative fees, the Department shall process all applications for
release of funds from the escrow account as described in Section 162.07 B.2. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 175,890, Eff. 5/12/04.)	2.	Any outstanding fees and
penalties imposed pursuant to Article 1 of Chapter XVI of this Code,	3.	Any
outstanding rent registration fees in an RSO building and any penalties
pertaining thereto pursuant to Section 151.05.	Any remaining funds shall be
returned to the current landlord.	E.	As a condition of terminating the escrow
account, the City Council may order an expedited systematic inspection pursuant
to Section 161.805(6) and impose inspection fees and administrative costs
pursuant to Sections 161.901 through 161.903.  The City Council may also
condition termination of the escrow account on payment of those fees or any
other unpaid fees under Subsection D.	F.	If the City Council terminates the rent
reduction, the rent will be restored to the original level 30 days after the
Department mails the tenants notice of the restoration.	G.	Monitoring Program. 
The City Council by resolution may release a building from REAP, and include the
following conditions:	1.	That the landlord pay any outstanding and
non-appealable electric service and/or water charges pertaining to the property
into REAP, to the satisfaction of the Department of Water and Power of the City
of Los Angeles;	2.	That the landlord pay all outstanding rent registration fees
and any penalties pertaining thereto, to the satisfaction of the Rent
Stabilization Division of the L.A.H.D. and any inspection fees, added inspection
costs or administrative costs to the satisfaction of the Code Enforcement
Division of the L.A.H.D.; and	3.	That the landlord prepay for two annual
inspections, beyond the initial inspection and re-inspection included in the
Systematic Code Enforcement Fee pursuant to Section 161.352, to the Los Angeles
Housing Department, for each property that was included in REAP, in an amount of
$169.00 per additional inspection.  Any additional inspection requiring more
than 1.5 on-site hours may be billed at an additional $52.00 per hour or portion
thereof for on-site work.  (Amended by Ord. No. 175,206, Eff. 6/18/03.)
