                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

TENANT PROTECTIONS. (§ 162.09)

  TENANT PROTECTIONS.
	(Added by Ord. No. 173,810, Eff. 4/16/01.)	A.	Evictions.	1.	The gross amount of
payment made into the account by or on behalf of a tenant shall be deemed as a
payment in the same amount to the landlord, including, but not limited to, for
the purpose of determining whether a tenant has paid rent with respect to
Section 151.09 A.1. of this Code or Section 1159 et seq. of the California Code
of Civil Procedure.  In any action by a landlord to recover possession of a
residential unit, the tenant may raise the fact of payments into REAP as an
affirmative defense in the same manner as if the payments had been made to and
accepted by the landlord.	2.	While a unit is in REAP, before bringing an action
to recover possession on the basis of nonpayment of rent, the landlord shall
have a duty to verify in writing with the Department that the tenant has not
paid his or her rent to the Department.  The Department shall respond within
three business days to any request for verification.  The landlord shall not
bring an action to recover possession on the basis of nonpayment of rent without
making this inquiry or if the tenant or the Department presents proof that the
tenant has paid the rent demanded to the Department.  The violation of this
section shall not be a misdemeanor.	3.	Regardless whether the unit is covered by
the RSO, until the unit is removed from REAP and for 180 days thereafter, or
until expiration of the period called for under Section 161.806, if applicable,
whichever is later, the landlord may bring an action to recover possession of
the unit only upon the grounds set forth in Section 151.09 A.	4.	If the dominant
intent of a landlord in seeking to recover possession of a rental unit is
retaliation for the tenant’s or an Enforcement Agency’s exercise of rights
or duties under this article, and if the tenant is not in default as to the
payment of rent, then the landlord may not recover possession of a rental unit
in any action or proceeding or cause the tenant to quit voluntarily.  Until the
unit is removed from REAP and for one year thereafter, the landlord shall have
the burden of proving that any action to recover possession, other than one
based on nonpayment of rent, is not brought for the purposes of
retaliation.	5.	In any action by a landlord to recover possession of a rental
unit, the tenant may raise as a defense any grounds set forth in this section. 
If the tenant is the prevailing party, he or she shall be entitled to recover
reasonable attorneys’ fees and expenses.	B.	Rent Increases.  Until the unit
is removed from REAP and for one year thereafter, or until expiration of the
period called for under Section 161.807, if applicable, whichever is later, the
landlord or any subsequent landlord shall not increase the rent for the current
or any subsequent tenants.  If the unit is covered by the RSO, after expiration
of this period, no rent increase shall be allowed for reimbursement of a capital
improvement or cited rehabilitation work for any corrections necessary to comply
with the Order that resulted in the placement into REAP or any additional Orders
issued while in REAP.	C.	Civil Actions.  Any landlord who violates any of the
provisions of this section or who retaliates against a tenant for the tenant’s
or an Enforcement Agency’s exercise of rights or duties under this article
shall be liable in a civil action for damages and a penalty of $1,000 per
violation, together with reasonable attorneys’ fees and expenses.  Any
judgment awarded in such an action may be collected from the escrow account upon
application as set forth in Section 162.07 B.
