                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ESCROW ACCOUNT. (§ 162.07)

  ESCROW ACCOUNT.
	(Added by Ord. No. 173,810, Eff. 4/16/01.)	A.	Establishment of
Account.	1.	Within five working days after the decision accepting a building
into REAP has become final, the Department shall establish as part of the REAP
Trust Fund an account for the building into which tenants may deposit rent
payments.  The Department shall mail notification to all tenants of the
existence of the account, including an explanation of how payments may be
deposited into the account.  The Department shall provide a receipt to each
tenant making a deposit.  The Department shall provide, at least once a month,
a periodic report to the landlord concerning the activity in the account.  The
records of the account shall be reasonably available to the landlord or any
interested party, or their representatives, in accordance with the regulations,
including the provision for payment of reasonable fees, as the Commission may
promulgate.	2.	Interest at a rate established by the Rent Adjustment Commission
pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph a. of Subdivision 1. of Subsection B. of
Section 151.06.02 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code shall accrue to the funds
held in each account established by the Department pursuant to the provisions of
Subdivision 1. of this Section, and shall be disbursed upon termination of the
account in accordance with Subsection D. of Section 162.08.  (Added by Ord. No.
177,119, Eff. 12/26/05.)	B.	Withdrawals from 	1.	The Department shall deduct a
non-refundable administrative fee of $50.00 for each individual rent payment
made into the account.  Only one such fee shall be deducted for each
residential unit for each month.	2.	A landlord, any tenant, any Enforcement
Agency, any interested party, and any creditor may apply to the General Manager
for a release of funds from the escrow account, in accordance with the
regulations the RAC shall enact.  Withdrawals may be for the following reasons,
in addition to other reasons adopted by regulation:	a.	When necessary to prevent
a significant diminution of an essential service to the building, including
utilities;	b.	When necessary for the correction of deficiencies, including but
not limited to those that caused the acceptance into REAP;	c.	When, to the
extent legally permissible, requested by a tenant who has performed or wishes to
repair conditions that affect the tenant’s health and safety, that result in a
deprivation of housing services, as defined in Section 151.02, or that result in
a habitability violation, as defined in Section 153.02. Those repairs are not
limited to the repair of violations that caused the acceptance into
REAP;	d.	When requested by a tenant who wishes to or has relocated from the unit
or building.  These withdrawals are not limited to the amount of relocation
assistance permitted by the RSO;	e.	When requested by a tenant who has sustained
expenses due to uninhabitable conditions; or	f.	When ordered by a court.	3.	Upon
receipt of an application for release of funds, the General Manager shall hold a
hearing following the procedures set forth in Division 8 of Article 1 of Chapter
XVI of this Code.  The General Manager shall order the release of funds from
the escrow account where it has been demonstrated to the satisfaction of the
General Manager that the conditions set forth in paragraph 2 above, or other
conditions enacted by regulation, have been met.  When necessary to address an
imminent threat to the health or safety of the occupants, or to prevent the
termination of utilities, the General Manager may release funds without a
hearing or on shortened notice.  The RAC shall promulgate regulations governing
expedited releases.  Any aggrieved party may appeal the General Manager’s
decision to the Appeals Board following the procedures set forth in Division 10
of Article 1 of Chapter XVI of this Code.  An application fee required pursuant
to the provisions of Section 161.1002.2 may be waived by the Department in
accordance with the standards and procedures set forth in the provisions of
Section 151.14 C.  (Last Sentence Added by Ord. No. 177,634, Eff.
7/22/06.)	4.	If a building is in more than one escrow program of the Department
(including REAP, UMP, URP or HEP), disbursement of funds in excess of the $50.00
administrative fee to make repairs, to address the health and safety of the
occupants, or to preserve essential services, shall be given priority over
expenditures for other purposes.	5.	The pendency of an unlawful detainer action
or an unlawful detainer judgement shall not prevent the disbursement of funds to
a tenant. The General Manager shall take into account the facts and
circumstances of the unlawful detainer action.	6.	The General Manager shall deny
the application where it determines that the application is intended, in whole
or in part, to circumvent the provisions of this article.  A debt incurred
subsequent to notice to a creditor that the building was under consideration for
or had been selected for participation in REAP, shall be presumed, subject to
rebuttal, to be for the purpose of circumventing the provisions of this article.
