                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ACCEPTANCE. (§ 162.04)

  ACCEPTANCE.
	(Added by Ord. No. 173,810, Eff. 4/16/01.)	A.	Upon receipt of a referral, the
Department shall verify that the period allowed for compliance, including any
extensions, has expired.  If the compliance period has not expired but the
conditions set forth in Section 162.03 have otherwise been met, the Department
shall hold the referral for processing until after the period expires.	B.	Upon
receipt of a referral, the Department shall also investigate whether there are
other outstanding Orders against the building that also meet the conditions set
forth in Section 162.03.	C.	After completing its review, the Department shall
accept the building or unit into REAP if the conditions set forth in Section
162.03 are met.  If there are other Orders that meet the conditions set forth
in Section 162.03, the Department shall accept any additional units covered by
those Orders into REAP.  If the other Orders have not yet expired, the
Department may accept the units effective the date the Orders expire.  If the
referral by a City or County agency indicates that the violations are of a
nature or extent that they are likely to exist in or affect all of the units,
then any rent reduction for those violations shall apply to all affected
units.	D.	If the Department accepts the building or unit into REAP, it shall
issue a decision setting forth:	1.	The date of the Order that has not been
complied with and the citing agency;	2.	The outstanding violations;	3.	The units
affected by the decision;	4.	The amount of the rent reduction, following the
schedule adopted pursuant to Section 162.05.  If the rent reduction calculation
exceeds the cap set by the schedule, the decision shall describe the calculation
and shall state that the rent reduction is limited by the schedule;	5.	The date
on which the rent reduction will be in effect.  If not appealed, that date
shall be the first rental payment due 20 days after the date of the decision. 
If the building is not covered by the RSO, the rent reduction shall not be
effective until at least 60 days from the date of the Order;	6.	The date on
which on which an escrow account will be established;	7.	(Amended by Ord. No.
175,890, Eff. 5/12/04.)	(a)	A notice that the City will collect a non-refundable
administrative fee of $50.00 per residential unit accepted into REAP per
month;	(b)	A notice that the $50.00 administrative fee per unit per month will
be collected in accordance with Section 162.12, and that in addition to a
personal obligation and all other remedies provided by law, pursuant to that
section, the City may collect any judgment, fee, cost, or charge, including any
permit fees, fines, late charges, or interest, incurred in relation to the
provisions of this article as provided in Los Angeles Administrative Code
Sections 7.35.1 through 7.35.8.	8.	A statement describing the tenant protections
set forth in Section 162.09; and	9.	The landlord’s right to appeal and the
effect of an appeal, including the stay pending appeal, the retroactivity of a
decision on appeal, and the possibility that additional rent reductions may be
imposed on appeal, as set forth in Section 162.06.	E.	The decision shall be
served on the landlord as set forth in Section 161.409 by certified United
States mail, postage prepaid.  The decision shall also be served on all
affected tenants after the time for appeal has expired if there is no appeal. 
If the decision is appealed, it shall not be served on the tenants.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 175,112, Eff. 4/8/03.)	F.	Upon accepting a unit or building into
REAP, the Department shall consider whether the building should be referred for
a periodic inspection pursuant to Section 161.602.
