                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ELIGIBILITY FOR RELOCATION BENEFITS. (§ 163.02)

  ELIGIBILITY FOR RELOCATION BENEFITS.	A.	Any tenant who is displaced or
subject to displacement from a residential rental unit as a result of a notice
to vacate or any order requiring the vacation of the residential unit by the
Enforcement Agency due to a violation so extensive and of such a nature that the
immediate health and safety of the residents is endangered, shall be entitled to
relocation benefits payable by the landlord in the amounts prescribed in Section
163.05.  The Enforcement Agency shall determine the eligibility of tenants for
benefits paid pursuant to this article.	B.	No relocation benefits pursuant to
this article shall be payable to any tenant who has caused or substantially
contributed to the condition giving rise to the order to vacate, as determined
by the Enforcement Agency, nor shall any relocation benefits be payable to a
tenant if any guest or invitee of the tenant has caused or substantially
contributed to the condition giving rise to the order to vacate, as determined
by the Enforcement Agency.  The Enforcement Agency shall make the determination
whether a tenant, tenant’s guest, or invitee caused or substantially
contributed to the condition giving rise to the order to vacate at the same time
that the order to vacate the tenants is made.	C.	A landlord shall not be liable
for relocation benefits if the Enforcement Agency determines that the unit or
structure became unsafe or hazardous as the result of a fire, flood, earthquake,
or other event beyond the control of the landlord and the landlord did not cause
or contribute to the condition.	D.	In the situations described in Subsections B.
and C. of this section, the tenants of units within a multi-unit structure who
did not cause or substantially contribute to the uninhabitable condition may be
eligible for relocation benefits from the City if the City elects at its
discretion to pay relocation benefits, based on the recommendation from the
Enforcement Agency.
