                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

RESPONSIBILITIES OF ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. (§ 163.03)

  RESPONSIBILITIES OF ENFORCEMENT AGENCY.	A.	Unless the Enforcement Agency
determines that the tenants are not eligible for relocation benefits pursuant to
the provisions of Section 163.02 above, the Enforcement Agency shall issue an
order requiring the landlord to pay relocation benefits in the amounts specified
in Section 163.05.  The order shall direct that relocation assistance be paid
in the time set forth in Section 163.04, and the Enforcement Agency shall
provide notice of the order to the landlord and the tenants in the manner set
forth in that section.  If possible, the order to pay relocation benefits shall
be made simultaneously with the issuance of the order to vacate.  When ordering
the landlord to pay the relocation benefits, the Enforcement Agency shall adhere
to the procedures set forth in Section 163.04.	B.	Any order to vacate shall be
accompanied by a summary of the provisions of California Health and Safety Code
(Section 17975 et seq.).  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,744, Eff. 7/15/11.)	C.	Any
order to pay relocation assistance shall advise the landlord of the appeals
process by which the landlord may challenge the determination of the Enforcement
Agency.	D.	Where the landlord fails, neglects, or refuses to comply with an
order to pay relocation benefits, the City, acting through the General Manager
of the Enforcement Agency, may advance relocation benefits to displaced tenants
and recover the advanced amount, penalties and costs from the landlord.  If the
total amount of relocation benefits advanced pursuant to Section 163.05 exceeds
$50,000 per property, the General Manager must obtain the concurrence of the
Mayor and City Council before advancing benefits to displaced tenants.  The
landlord shall be liable to the City of Los Angeles for reimbursement of the
relocation benefits plus a penalty in the amount of one-half of the benefits
paid, not to exceed $10,000, and the costs of the Enforcement Agency as set
forth in California Health and Safety Code Section 17975 et seq.  (Sentence
Amended by Ord. No. 181,744, Eff. 7/15/11.)  The City may collect the
reimbursement, penalties and costs in the manner set forth in that section,
including the imposition of a lien on the property.	E.	The General Manager of
the Enforcement Agency is empowered and designated to hear and adjudicate any
appeal brought by a landlord from an order requiring payment of relocation
benefits.  The Enforcement Agency’s Appeals Board is empowered and designated
to hear and adjudicate any appeal from the General Manager’s decision.  The
General Manager and the Enforcement Agency’s Appeals Board shall adhere to the
requirements of Section 17975 et seq.  (Sentence Amended by Ord. No. 181,744,
Eff. 7/15/11.)
