                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PAYMENT OF RELOCATION BENEFITS BY THE CITY. (§ 163.07)

  PAYMENT OF RELOCATION BENEFITS BY THE CITY.	A.	If the landlord fails,
neglects or refuses to pay relocation payments to a tenant displaced or subject
to displacement pursuant to an order to vacate except in the situations
described in Section 163.02 B. or 163.02 C. above, the City may advance
relocation payments to the tenants in the amount set forth in Section 163.05
above.	B.	If the landlord fails to comply with an order to pay relocation
assistance, the landlord shall be liable to the City for any relocation payments
advanced, other than any payments made pursuant to Section 163.02 D., in the
amount of the payments plus a penalty in the amount set forth in California
Health and Safety Code Section 50657(a). The Enforcement Agency may place a lien
against the property as set forth in California Health and Safety Code Section
50657(b)	C.	Prior to instituting any action to collect from the landlord or to
impose a lien on the property, the Enforcement Agency shall send an accounting
to the landlord as set forth in California Health and Safety Code Section
17975.  (Sentence Amended by Ord. No. 181,744, Eff. 7/15/11.)  The landlord
may contest the accounting within 20 days after receipt by filing a written
request for a General Manager’s hearing.  However, if there are fewer than
ten days, and if the City advances relocation benefits to any tenants prior to
the expiration of the ten-day period, the landlord shall have 30 days to file a
written request contesting the charge after the itemized accounting is
mailed.	D.	If the request is filed within the time set forth in Subsection
163.07 C. above, the General Manager shall hold a hearing following the
procedures for the Enforcement Agency.  Any person aggrieved by the decision of
the General Manager may appeal to the Appeals Board following the procedures for
that Enforcement Agency.  If the landlord fails to obtain a more favorable
decision than that set forth in the itemized accounting, he or she shall be
liable to the City for the costs of the administrative hearing and appeal, not
to exceed $5,000.  If the accounting is not appealed as set forth in this
paragraph, it is final and is subject to California Code of Civil Procedure
Section 1094.5.  The failure to receive the itemized accounting shall not
relieve the owner of any obligation to the City.
