                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEFINITIONS. (§ 163.01)

  DEFINITIONS.	The following words and phrases, whenever used in this article,
shall be construed as defined in this section unless the context within
individual sections clearly indicates otherwise.  Words and phrases not defined
here shall be construed as defined in Sections 12.03, 57.02.02, 91.201, et seq.,
91.8902, 151.02 and 161.201.	A.	Appeals Board.  The Board of Fire
Commissioners, the Board of Building and Safety Commissioners or the Rent
Adjustment Commission, depending on which Enforcement Agency issued the order to
vacate.	B.	Board of Fire Commissioner.  The Appeals Board for the Fire
Department.	C.	Building and Safety Commission.  The Board of Building and
Safety Commissioners.  The Appeals Board for the Department of Building and
Safety. 	D.	Enforcement Agency.  The Departments of Building and Safety, Fire,
or Housing of the City of Los Angeles.	E.	General Manager.  The Superintendent
of Building and the General Manager of the Department of Building and Safety or
his or her designee, the General Manager of the Housing Department or his or her
designee, and/or the Chief of the Fire Department or his or her
designee.	F.	Landlord.  An owner, lessor, or sublessor, (including any person,
firm, corporation, partnership, or other entity) who receives or is entitled to
receive rent for the use of any rental unit, or their designated agent,
representative or successor.	G.	Order To Vacate.  Any order or notice to vacate
by an enforcement agency as a result of a violation so extensive and of such a
nature that the immediate health and safety of the residents is
endangered.	H.	Qualified Tenant.  Any tenant who has attained age 62; is
handicapped as defined in California Health and Safety Code Section 50072 or is
disabled as defined in United States Code Title 42, Sec. 423; or is a person
residing with and on whom is legally dependent (as determined for federal income
tax persons) one or more minor children.	I.	The Rent Adjustment Commission
(RAC).  The Rent Adjustment Commission, or its successor.  The Appeals Board
for the Housing Department.
