                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEFINITIONS. (§ 164.02)

  DEFINITIONS.	The following words and phrases, whenever used in this article,
shall be construed as defined in this section unless the context within
individual section clearly indicates otherwise.  Words and phrases not defined
here shall be construed as defined in Sections 12.03, 12.20.3, 91.8901, et seq.,
and 98.0702, et seq.:	A.	“Abandoned” means a property that is vacant and is
under a Notice of Default and/or Notice of Trustee’s Sale, pending tax
assessor’s lien sale and/or properties that have been the subject of a
previous foreclosure sale in which title was retained by the beneficiary of a
deed of trust involved in the foreclosure and any properties transferred under a
deed in lieu of foreclosure and/or sale.	B.	“Assignment of Rents” means an
instrument that transfers the beneficial interest under a deed of trust from one
lender/entity to another.	C.	“Beneficiary” means a lender under a note
secured by a deed of trust.	D.	“Days” means consecutive calendar
days.	E.	“Deed of Trust” means an instrument by which title to real estate
is transferred to a third party trustee as security for a real estate loan. 
This definition applies to all deeds of trust regardless of priority.	F.	“Deed
in Lieu of Foreclosure and/or Sale” means a recorded document that transfers
ownership of a property from the trustor upon consent of the beneficiary of the
deed of trust.	G.	“Default” means the failure to fulfill a contractual
obligation, monetary or nonmonetary.	H.	“Foreclosure” means the process by
which a property, placed as security for a real estate loan, is sold at auction
to satisfy the debt if the trustor (borrower) defaults.	I.	“Local” means
within 100 road/driving miles distance of the subject property.	J.	“Notice of
Default” means a recorded notice that a default has occurred under a deed of
trust.	K.	“Out of Area” means in excess of 100 road/driving miles distance
of the subject property.	L.	“Property” means any unimproved or improved
residential real property, or portion thereof, situated in the City of Los
Angeles and includes the buildings or structures located on the property
regardless of condition.	M.	“Property in Foreclosure” means any Property
upon which a Notice of Default has been issued by a lender, mortgagee, or
beneficiary of any deed of trust.	N.	“Trustee” means the person, firm or
corporation holding a deed of trust on a property.	O.	“Trustor” means a
borrower under a deed of trust, who deeds property to a trustee as security for
the payment of a debt.
