                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

REGISTRATION OF PROPERTIES IN FORECLOSURE. (§ 164.04)

  REGISTRATION OF PROPERTIES IN FORECLOSURE.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 182,319, Eff. 12/29/12.)	Any beneficiary or trustee, who
holds, or has an interest in, a deed of trust on a Property in Foreclosure
located within the City of Los Angeles (“City”) shall register the Property
in Foreclosure with the Housing Department of the City of Los Angeles
(“LAHD”).  If the beneficiary or trustee issues a Notice of Default after
the Effective Date of this Ordinance, they shall register such property with
LAHD within thirty days of the issuance of such Notice of Default.  If the
beneficiary or trustee issues a Notice of Default prior to the Effective Date of
this Ordinance, and such Notice of Default has not been rescinded, the
beneficiary or trustee shall register the Property in Foreclosure with LAHD
within 30 days of the Effective Date of this Ordinance.	The registration
requirements of this Ordinance shall be satisfied by providing LAHD with contact
information including street address and telephone number for the person or
persons directly responsible for the Property in Foreclosure.  If such person
or persons are located Out of Area, such person or persons shall also provide
the contact information, including street address and phone number for the staff
of any applicable property management or property preservation company
responsible for the security, maintenance, and marketing of the property.  Such
person or persons responsible for the property must be empowered to (1) comply
with code enforcement orders issued by the City, (2) provide a trespass
authorization upon request of local law enforcement authorities if the property
is unlawfully occupied, (3) conduct weekly inspections of the Property, (4)
accept rental payments from tenants of the property if no management company is
otherwise employed for such person.	An annual registration fee in the amount of
$155.00 shall be paid to LAHD at the time of registration.  The fee and
registration shall be valid for the calendar year, or remaining portion of the
calendar year, in which the registration was initially required.  Subsequent
registrations and fees are due January 1st of each year and must be received no
later than January 31st of the year due.	The registration shall contain the name
of the beneficiary and/or trustee (corporation or individual), the direct street
and/or office mailing address of the beneficiary and/or trustee (P.O. boxes are
insufficient), a direct contact name and phone number for the beneficiary and/or
trustee and, in the case of a corporation or Out of Area beneficiary and/or
trustee, the local property management company responsible for the security,
maintenance and marketing of the property.  Registration fees will not be
prorated.	Any beneficiary or trustee who holds a deed of trust on a Property in
Foreclosure shall perform an inspection of the property that is the security for
the deed of trust, upon default by the trustor, prior to recording a Notice of
Default with the Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office.	If the property is
occupied but remains in default it shall be inspected by the beneficiary and/or
trustee, or his designee, monthly until the trustor other or party remedies the
default.	This section shall also apply to properties that have been the subject
of a foreclosure sale where the title was transferred to the beneficiary of a
deed of trust involved in the foreclosure and any properties transferred under a
deed in lieu of foreclosure/sale.	Properties subject to this chapter shall
remain under the annual registration requirement, security and maintenance
standards of this section as long as they remain vacant.	Any person, firm or
corporation that has registered a property under this chapter must report any
change of information contained in the registration with LAHD within 10 days of
the change.	If LAHD determines that the beneficiary and/or trustee has failed to
comply with the registry requirements of this section, LAHD shall notify the
beneficiary and/or trustee at the last known address as provided in Section
161.409 of the failure to comply with this section.  If the beneficiary and/or
trustee fails to comply with this section within 30 days of LAHD’s
notification, the beneficiary and/or trustee shall pay a penalty in the amount
of $250 per day for each day subsequent to LAHD’s notification.
