                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

TRACT MAPS – GENERAL PROVISIONS. (§ 17.01)

  TRACT MAPS – GENERAL PROVISIONS.	A.	Scope.	1.	No person shall subdivide
land in the City of Los Angeles into five or more parcels unless a Final Map has
been recorded as hereinafter provided.  (Amended by Ord. No. 146,985, Eff.
4/11/75.	2.	No building or structure shall be constructed or enlarged on any
land which has been subdivided in violation of the provisions of this article,
nor shall any permit be issued therefor.	3.	The provisions of this article shall
not be construed as preventing the recording of a final tract map containing
less than five lots or creating fewer than five condominium units in accordance
with the procedures outlined herein and in the Subdivision Map Act.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 146,985, Eff. 4/11/75.)	4.	(a)	General Rule.  The provisions of
this article shall be applicable to a commercial/industrial,
commercial/industrial to residential, residential, or residential to
commercial/industrial conversion project as defined in Section 12.03 of the
Municipal Code, except as follows.  (Amended by Ord. No. 154,960, Eff.
4/3/81.)	(b)	Stock Cooperative Conversions.  The provisions of this article
shall not apply to any conversion for stock cooperative purposes which satisfies
either of the following criteria: (1) the application for stock cooperative (DRE
Form 658 or its equivalent) was filed with the California Department of Real
Estate prior to July 1, 1979, or (2) a subdivision public report for stock
cooperative was issued pursuant to Business and Professions Code Section 11018
prior to November 10, 1979.  (Amended by Ord. No. 154,960, Eff.
4/3/81.)	(c)	New Stock Cooperatives.  The provisions of this article shall not
apply to any stock cooperative project, other than a commercial/industrial,
commercial/industrial to residential, residential, or residential to
commercial/industrial conversion project, where the application for stock
cooperative (DRE Form 658 or its equivalent was filed with the California
Department of Real Estate prior to March 21, 1980. (Amended by Ord. No. 154.960.
Eff. 4/3/81.)	(d)	Subdivision of Air Space. The provisions of this article shall
apply to a division of the space above or below a lot with a definite width,
length, and upper and lower elevation occupied or to be occupied by a use, group
of buildings or portions thereof, and accessory buildings or portions thereof,
or accessory uses, (Air Space Lot, as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code).
(Added by Ord. No. 156,681, Eff. 6/21/82.)	B.	Purpose. The purpose of this
article is to regulate and control the division of land, within the City of Los
Angeles, to provide for the dedication of land, the payment of fees in lieu
thereof, or a combination of both, for the acquisition and development of park
and recreation sites and facilities to serve the future inhabitants of the
subdivision, to supplement the provisions of the Subdivision Map Act concerning
the design, improvement and survey data of subdivisions, the form and content of
Tentative Maps and Final Maps, and the procedure to be followed in securing the
official approval of the City of Los Angeles on such maps, consistent with the
applicable general and specific plans as well as the public health, safety and
welfare. (Amended by Ord. No. 146,985, Eff. 4/11/75.)	It is also the intention
of this article that the subdividing of land in the City of Los Angeles be done
in accordance with the grading regulations of the City contained and set forth
in Article 1 of Chapter 9 of this Code and to establish when possible beauty and
attractiveness in the hills consistent with watershed drainage, erosion and fire
control requirements, and good engineering practices.	C.	Interpretation.  This
article shall not be interpreted or construed to invalidate any previous act on
the part of the City approving or authorizing private streets, or authorizing
the issuance of building permits for structures on lots served by private
streets.
