                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

IMPROVEMENTS. (§ 17.08)

  IMPROVEMENTS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 157,811, Eff. 8/13/83.)	A.	Requirements.  The streets,
alleys, lots and easements in all subdivisions subject to the provisions of this
article shall be laid out to provide for sewer and drainage facilities. All
streets and alleys and other public ways and easements within and immediately
adjoining the subdivision, together with any drainage and sanitary sewer
easements, shall be graded and improved to a width and grade in accordance with
plans approved by the City Engineer. Other improvements as authorized by the
Subdivision Map Act may be required.	1.	In addition to permanent improvements,
temporary improvements may be required to be made prior to or concurrent with
permanent improvements. In hillside areas, temporary erosion control devices
shall be designed and installed in a manner approved by the Board of Public
Works and the Department of Building and Safety.	2.	If the subdivision has been
submitted only for the purpose of clarifying records by consolidating existing
lots and/or metes and bounds parcels, or for the purpose of absorbing vacated
streets or alleys or for the purpose of reversion to acreage, the Advisory
Agency upon the recommendation of the City Engineer may waive all or a portion
of the improvements which otherwise would be required.	B.	Improvement Plans. 
Final plans, profiles and specifications for improvements shall be furnished to
the City Engineer for approval and processing concurrently with the checking of
the Final Tract or Parcel Map. Such plans, profiles and specifications shall
show full details for such improvements, and shall be in accordance with the
standards adopted by the City of Los Angeles.	In lieu of final plans, profiles
and specifications, the subdivider may furnish preliminary plans for
improvements in a form satisfactory to the City Engineer, provided the
subdivider agrees to furnish final plans, profiles and specifications to the
City Engineer not later than six months from the date the Final Map or Final
Parcel Map is filed for recording with the County Recorder. Preliminary plans
shall be of sufficient detail and extent so as to permit the City Engineer to
determine the type, extent, quantity and estimated cost of the required
improvements.	C.	Street Lighting. Plans for a street lighting system shall be
submitted to and be approved by the Bureau of Street Lighting. The time
requirement for submittal shall be as prescribed in Subsection B
hereof.	D.	(None)	E.	(None)	F.	Street Trees. Arrangements between the subdivider
and the City shall be made whereby the subdivider either places street trees in
subdivisions to the satisfaction of the Bureau of Street Maintenance of the
Department of Public Works, or makes a cash payment to the City. The amount of
cash payment shall be in accordance with rates established by the Board of
Public Works. When planted by the City, street trees may be planted under
contract or by City forces.	Any street tree planted by a subdivider, or for
which a payment is made to the City of Los Angeles to provide such tree, shall
be subject to the street tree maintenance fee set forth in Section 62.176 of
this Code	G.	Guarantees.	1.	No Final Tract or Final Parcel Map shall be
presented to the Council for approval until the subdivider/owner has completed
the improvements, or has guaranteed that all improvements will be constructed
and installed within a specified time. The requirement of guaranteeing the
construction and installation of improvements shall not be waived under any
condition except as provided herein. Final Parcel Maps, the preliminary maps for
which have been approved by the Advisory Agency specifying that improvements are
not required until such time as a building permit or other grant of approval for
development is issued, are exempt from this provision. California non–profit
corporations shall be exempt from these requirements to the extent provided in
the Subdivision Map Act.	2.	The guarantee shall be furnished in accordance with
the provisions of this subsection:	a.	Improvement Agreement. The
subdivider/owner shall execute an Improvement Agreement. Under the terms of this
agreement, the subdivider/owner shall, among other things, agree to construct
and install the improvements at the subdivider/owner’s expense; shall warrant
all work performed against any defective work or labor done, or defective
materials furnished for a period of one year following acceptance by the City
Engineer of all improvements; and shall agree to reimburse the City for all
costs and reasonable expenses and fees incurred by the City in enforcing the
terms of the agreement including reasonable attorney’s fees.	b.	Improvement
Security. Performance of the Improvement Agreement shall be guaranteed by one of
the following, at the option of and subject to the approval of the City:	(l)	A
surety bond or bonds payable to the City, executed by the subdivider/owner as
principal and one or more corporate sureties authorized to act as surety under
the laws of the State of California and having a certificate of authority as
acceptable surety on Federal bonds; or	(2)	A deposit of cash; or	(3)	A deposit
of negotiable United States Treasury bonds or notes, for which the faith and
credit of the United States are pledged for the payment of principal and
interest, payable to the bearer; or	(4)	A deposit of fully insured certificates
of deposit issued by a financial institution whose deposits are insured by an
instrumentality of the Federal Government, together with a nonrevocable
assignment to the City that pledges that the funds are on deposit and guaranteed
for the performance of the Improvement Agreement. Such certificates of deposit
may provide that interest shall be paid to the depositor. The assignment shall
allow the City to withdraw the principal amount, or any portion thereof, upon
declaration of default by the Board of Public Works without the necessity of any
further consent by the depositor. The Improvement Security shall be on a form
prepared by the City Engineer, shall be a joint and several obligation, and
shall be in an amount estimated by the City Engineer to be reasonably necessary
to complete the construction and installation of all of the improvements
required to be done pursuant to the Improvement Agreement and to warrant the
work against defective work or labor done, or defective materials furnished in
the performance of the work.	The term of the Improvement Security shall begin on
the day it is approved by the City Council and shall continue until the work is
accepted by the City Engineer.	The Improvement Security shall contain the
further conditions that in addition to the face amount, all parties executing
the security shall be firmly bound under a continuing obligation for payment of
all reasonable costs, expenses and fees, including reasonable attorney’s fees
incurred by the City in enforcing the obligation secured thereby; that all
parties agree to any extensions of time within which to construct and install
the improvements; and that all parties further agree to such alterations of or
additions to the work as may be deemed necessary by the City Engineer provided
the cost increase does not exceed 10 percent of the value of the Improvement
Security.	c.	Improvement Warranty Guarantee. As a part of the Improvement
Security there shall be included an amount to be determined by the City Engineer
sufficient for the guarantee and warranty of the work for a period of one year
following the date of acceptance of the work by the City Engineer against any
defective work or labor done, or defective materials furnished in the
performance of the work.	d.	Labor and Material Payment Security. Security shall
be furnished for payment of labor and materials furnished in the construction
and installation of the improvements. The security shall be furnished in one of
the forms described in Subdivision 2b, hereof, and shall be in an amount equal
to not less than 50 percent of the Improvement Security as estimated by the City
Engineer. The security shall inure to the benefit of all persons, and entities
furnishing services, supplies or equipment for the improvements as referenced in
Sections 3110, 3111 and 3112 of the California Civil Code. All claims under this
labor and materials payment security must be filed with the City Clerk on or
before the expiration of 90 days after the completion of the
improvements.	e.	Existing Security. Notwithstanding the foregoing requirements,
if the subdivider/owner already has on file with the City Engineer an
Improvement Security in one of the forms described in Subdivision 2b, hereof,
posted pursuant to Section 62.111 of this Code which guarantees completion of
all of the improvements designated in the Improvement Agreement and in an amount
at least equal to the amount determined by the City Engineer to be necessary to
complete all of the improvements, no additional Improvement Security shall be
required; however, improvement warranty guarantee and labor and material
security may be required.	3.	Extension of Time. If it appears that the
improvements cannot be completed by the date specified in the Improvement
Agreement, written application may be made to the City Engineer for an extension
of the completion date. One extension of time shall be granted to a time at
which the City Engineer determines the work of improvement should reasonably be
completed. Further extensions of time may be granted at the discretion of the
City Engineer. If the subdivider disagrees with the determination of the City
Engineer such decision may be appealed to the Board of Public Works. Any
extension may be considered upon agreement by the surety and principal
to:	a.	Begin or resume construction of the improvements on a schedule to be
specified by the City Engineer, and/or	b.	Update the estimated cost of
construction and installation of the improvements with an adjustment in the
Improvement Security commensurate with the updated estimates, and/or	c.	To the
extent possible, construct and install the required improvements in accordance
with the standards and specifications of the Board of Public Works in effect at
the time such extension of time is granted; and/or	d.	Comply with other
conditions as may be deemed necessary by the City Engineer to insure diligent
prosecution of the work.	4.	Reduction of Improvement Security. When a portion of
the improvements have been completed to the satisfaction of the City Engineer,
the City Engineer may consent to a reduction in the amount of the Improvement
Security upon written request from the subdivider/owner. The City Engineer may
consent to two reductions provided the original security for the improvements
exceeds $200,000 and the work completed is identifiable, capable of being
maintained by the City, and accepted by the City Engineer. In extreme hardship
circumstances the City Engineer may consent to one reduction without regard to
the preceding provisions. The remaining security shall be adequate to cover the
estimated cost of completing the remaining improvements, the improvement
warranty guarantee, and reasonable expenses and fees for enforcement of the
terms of the Improvement Agreement. If a cash deposit or negotiable security is
on deposit, that portion of the cash or negotiable security not required as a
guarantee for the remaining improvements, improvement warranty guarantee and
reasonable expenses and fees for enforcement of the terms of the Improvement
Agreement, shall be returned to the depositor. If a certificate of deposit is on
file, reduction in the Improvement Security will be accomplished by the City
Engineer issuing a notice of reduction to the depositor and financial
institution. If a surety bond is on file, reduction in the Improvement Security
will be accomplished by the execution of a rider to the improvement surety bond
by the principal and surety thereon and shall be effective upon approval by the
City Engineer and the City Attorney.	5.	Release of Improvement Security. When
all of the requirements of the Improvement Agreement and the Improvement
Security have been completed to the satisfaction of the City Engineer and the
improvement warranty guarantee has expired, the City Engineer shall issue a
Certificate of Acceptance and Termination of Improvement Warranty Bond to the
subdivider/owner and a copy thereof shall be sent to the surety company if a
surety bond is on file. However, if the improvement warranty guarantee has not
expired, the City Engineer may issue a Certificate of Acceptance, which
exonerates the portion of the Improvement Security guaranteeing completion of
the construction and installation of the improvements, but not the improvement
warranty guarantee. Said warranty guarantee shall thereafter be released in
total by the City Engineer on or after one year from the date of the completion
notice from the Bureau of Engineering, provided no claims against said guarantee
have been made by the City.	6.	Release of Labor and Material Payment Security.
On or after ninety (90) days from the date of completion notices from both the
Bureau of Contract Administration and the Bureau of Engineering, security posted
under Subdivision 2d hereof to secure payment for labor and materials may be
released by the City Engineer in whole if no claims are filed or reduced to an
amount equal to one–hundred and fifty (150) percent of those claims filed with
the City Clerk. If a cash, negotiable security, or certificate of deposit
payment security is on file, the City Engineer shall:	a.	Release the cash,
negotiable security or certificate of deposit payment bond in total, if no
claims have been filed; or	b.	Reduce the cash or negotiable security or
certificate of deposit payment bond to an amount equal to one–hundred and
fifty (150) percent total amount of the claims filed with the City
Clerk.	H.	Enforcement.  If the subdivider/owner neglects, refuses or fails to
construct the improvements with such diligence as to insure completion within
the time specified, or within such extensions of said time as may have been
granted by the City Engineer or the Board of Public Works or if the
subdivider/owner neglects, refuses or fails to perform satisfactorily any act
required under the Improvement Agreement, the Board of Public Works may declare
the Improvement Agreement in default, and shall take whatever actions are
necessary to enforce the terms and conditions of the Improvement Security. The
Board is hereby empowered to order all or any part of the work to be done either
by City forces or by separate contract, and the City shall be entitled to
reimbursement for all costs and expenses as a result of such construction. If
the Improvement Security is a cash deposit, negotiable security or certificate
of deposit the Board is empowered to deduct therefrom, on behalf of the City, an
amount sufficient to reimburse and to indemnity the City for any and all
damages, costs and expenses sustained or incurred by the City in enforcing the
terms and conditions of the Improvement Agreement.
