                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ADVISORY AGENCY. (§ 17.03)

  ADVISORY AGENCY.	The Director of Planning is hereby designated as the for the
City of Los Angeles. The Director is authorized to act in such capacity through
one or more deputies who are appointed by him for that purpose. The Director,
with the concurrence of the Chief Zoning Administrator, may designate an
Associate Zoning Administrator to perform these additional functions. (Amended
by Ord. No. 150,947, Eff. 7/3/78.)	A.	Authority and Duties.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 163,797, Eff. 8/8/88.)  The Advisory Agency is charged with the duty of
making investigations and reports on the design and improvement of proposed
subdivisions, of requiring the dedication of land, the payment of fees in lieu
thereof, or a combination of both, for the acquisition and development of park
and recreation sites and facilities, and is hereby authorized to approve,
conditionally approve, or disapprove Tentative Maps of proposed subdivisions,
private streets and such maps as are provided for herein, to prescribe the
design, kinds, nature and extent of improvements required to be installed in
connection therewith and to report directly to the subdivider the action taken
on the Tentative Map. The Advisory Agency is also charged with the duty of
determining the recreational and park fee for zone changes pursuant to Section
12.33 of this Code.	In taking any such action, the Advisory Agency is authorized
to include or omit in whole or in part the reports or recommendations of the
other concerned officials or City departments, except that the Advisory Agency
may not omit any mandatory requirements relating to public health or safety
recommended by such other officials or departments in the exercise of their
duties prescribed by law. Before approving the omission of any report or
recommendation made by such officials or departments the Advisory Agency shall
submit the matter to the members of the Subdivision Committee for consideration
at a regular meeting.	When the Advisory Agency approves or conditionally
approves a tentative map, it may also designate certain lots or proposed
buildings, whether existing or to be constructed on a lot shown on said map, as
sites for the construction of model dwellings. The Advisory Agency is authorized
to designate said sites only if it determines that they comply, or can be made
to comply with the design standards for sites for model dwellings as hereinafter
set forth in Section 17.05 of this article.	The Advisory Agency, acting in the
capacity of an Associate Zoning Administrator, shall have the authority to
reduce the width of required passageways pursuant to Section 12.21 C.2.(b) to no
less than five feet between habitable buildings and detached condominiums,
unless the Fire Department determines that the reduction would result in a
safety hazard.  And shall have the authority to grant deviations of no more
than 20 percent from the applicable area, yard, and height requirements.  The
subdivider must ask for adjustments at the time of filing.  In permitting
adjustments, the Advisory Agency shall make the findings contained in Section
12.28 C.4.  (Added by Ord. No. 176,321, Eff. 1/15/05.)	The
reductions/deviations shall be included in the written decision of the Advisory
Agency.  Notification and appeal rights to such reductions/deviations shall
conform to Section 17.06 A.  (Added by Ord. No. 176,321, Eff. 1/15/05.)	If the
final decision-maker imposes a condition as part of an action on a related
application that differs from a condition of approval on a tentative tract map,
then the Advisory Agency shall have the authority to make the tract map
conditions consistent with the final decision-maker’s action.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)	B.	Procedure.  The Advisory Council shall not
act upon any Tentative Map until 39 days time has elapsed from the filing of the
map, unless reports have been received from each member of the Subdivision
Committee. Where said reports have been mailed to the subdivider within the
39-day period, the Advisory Agency shall not act until five days’ time has
elapsed from the date of mailing of a copy of all. such reports to the
subdivider. Every Tentative Map shall be considered by the Advisory Agency at a
public meeting.  (Amended by Ord. No. 137,891, Eff.
1/8/69.)	C.	Modifications.  The Advisory Agency is authorized to approve or
disapprove requests by a subdivider for minor modifications in the Conditions of
Approval for a Tentative Map, but such action shall not extend the time for
filing of a Final Map with the City Engineer. Such decisions shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Section 17.11 and shall be subject to the same
appeal as is provided for appeals from the decision of the Advisory Agency on
Tentative Maps.	D.	Subdivision of Air Space.  (Amended by Ord. No. 168,132,
Eff. 9/3/92.)  Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter to the contrary,
in any zone, the Advisory Agency is authorized to approve, conditionally approve
or disapprove a preliminary parcel map or a tentative tract map showing one or
more air space lots (as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code), provided that
such air space lots are created in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 1,
Article 7 of this Code.	The Advisory Agency shall require, as a condition of
approval of any tentative tract map or preliminary parcel map showing one or
more air space lots, that the final map or parcel map showing such air space
lots be based upon a site plan which accurately describes the location of such
lots. After recordation of such map and upon construction of the buildings or
structures within the air space lots, if it is determined by the Department of
Building and Safety that there are minor discrepancies between the site plan and
the actual physical location of the air space lots in such buildings or
structures, lot lines for the air space lots may be adjusted as necessary
through the parcel map exemption procedure set forth in Los Angeles Municipal
Code Section 17.50B3c.
