                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DESIGN STANDARDS. (§ 17.05)

  DESIGN STANDARDS.	A.	Street Standards Committee.  There is hereby created a
Street Standards Committee to be composed of the Director of Planning, as
Chairman, the City Engineer and the General Manager of the Department of
Transportation. (Amended by Ord. No. 152,425, Eff. 6/29/79.)	It shall be the
duty of this committee to recommend to the Commission minimum width and
improvement standards for all classes of public and private streets and alleys.
The Commission shall adopt such minimum width and improvement standards as it
determines are necessary for the safe and adequate movement of traffic,
installation of necessary utilities and reasonable and proper access to abutting
property.	Said standards shall not, however, be applicable to any street or
alley for which the City Council, by ordinance, adopts specific standards. 
(Added by Ord. No. 146,585, Eff. 11/11/74.)	B.	Adoption Of Standards.  All such
standards adopted by the Commission shall remain in effect for at least one
year. A public hearing shall be conducted by the Commission prior to the
approval of any change in such standards. No such change will become effective
until 180 days after adoption by the Commission.	No change in such standards
after the approval of the Tentative Map shall be imposed as a condition to the
recording of a Final Map of a subdivision within the prescribed 18 month period.
New or changed standards shall not be required to be met as a condition of
permitting a one year extension of time if substantial grading operations have
been completed before such extension is requested.  (Amended by Ord. No.
130,871, Eff. 9/20/65.)	C.	Conformance To General Plan.  Each Tentative Map
shall be designed in compliance with the zoning applying to the property or
approved by the City Council for change or shall be subject to a condition
requiring compliance with such zoning prior to the recordation of the final
map.  (Amended by Ord. No. 156,960, Eff. 8/27/82.)	In addition, where a
Tentative Map involves land for which a General Plan including dwelling unit
densities has been adopted by the Council, and said land is also in an “H”
Hillside or Mountainous Area established by Article 2 of this chapter, the
number of lots on said map shall be limited so that the number of dwelling units
permitted by the applicable zoning regulations shall not substantially exceed
the dwelling unit densities shown on said plan. (Amended by Ord. No. 149,402,
Eff. 4/18/77.)	Each Tentative Map shall substantially conform to all other
elements of the General Plan.  In computing the number of dwelling units, only
the area being designated for residential use and land that is being dedicated
for public uses shall be considered, excepting, however, land set aside for
street purposes, or land required to be dedicated for park and recreation
purposes pursuant to Ordinance 141,422.  However, in the Greater Downtown
Housing Incentive Area, the area used for computing the allowable floor area of
a residential (including Apartment Hotel or mixed-use) building shall be the lot
area including any land to be set aside for street purposes.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 179,076, Eff. 9/23/07.)	In Hillside Areas, as defined in Chapter 1 of the
Los Angeles Municipal Code, which are designated in the Minimum Density housing
category by the applicable element of the General Plan adopted by the City
Council, the dwelling unit density shall not exceed that allowed by the
following formula:  (Paragraph and following formula Amended by Ord. No.
179,035, Eff. 9/17/07.)	Where :	D =	the maximum number of dwelling units per
gross acre allowable, and			S =	the average natural slope of the land in
percent.	Where the total allowable number of dwelling units per parcel map or
tentative tract map calculated under the above formulas results in a number
other than a whole number, it shall be rounded to the nearest whole number as
follows:  where the fractional portion of the total allowable number of
dwelling units equals .5 or more, the total number of allowable dwelling units
shall be rounded to the next larger whole number; where the fractional portion
of the total allowable number of dwelling units equals less than .5, the total
number of allowable dwelling units shall be rounded to the next smaller whole
number.  (Added by Ord. No. 162,144, Eff. 5/11/87.)	In no case shall the
permitted density be less than 0.05 dwelling units per gross acre.  Where the
total allowable number of dwelling units per tentative tract map calculated
under the above formula results in a number less than one, it shall be rounded
up to allow one dwelling unit per tentative tract map.  Where previous grading
on a site makes it difficult to determine average natural slope using the above
formula, the Director of Planning shall determine the average natural slope in a
manner to carry out the purpose and intent of this subsection.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 179,035, Eff. 9/17/07.)	D.	Streets.	1.	Right of Way and Roadway Widths.
All streets and alleys shall be designed to conform with standards adopted by
the Commission.	2.	Street Grades. Grades of all streets shall be as flat as
consistent with adequate surface drainage requirements and the approved
development of the proposed subdivision. The minimum grade permitted shall be
four–tenths of one per cent, except in extremely flat areas where a grade of
two–tenths of one per cent may be used. The maximum grade permitted for major
and secondary highways shall be six per cent, except where a grade not to exceed
ten percent will eliminate excessive curvature, fill or excavation. The maximum
grade permitted for collector streets shall be ten per cent and for local
streets shall be 15 per cent. Variations from these requirements may be granted
by the Advisory Agency upon recommendation by the City Engineer in individual
cases in accordance with the provisions of Section 17.11.	Changes in grade
greater than four–tenths of one per cent shall be connected by vertical
curves. The length of vertical curves shall conform to standards for sight
distance and riding qualities established by the City Engineer.	3.	Future
Streets.  In the event certain streets or alleys in a subdivision are to be
reserved for future public use and they have been approved as to location and
width, they shall be indicated on the Final Map and offered for dedication as
future streets or future alleys. Certificates providing that the City may accept
the offer to dedicate such easement at any time shall be shown on the Final
Map.	4.	Corner Cut-Off.  At all block corners the property line shall be
rounded. On all major and secondary highways, the corner shall have a 20–foot
radius curve and on all other streets, a 15–foot radius curve; provided,
however, that where commercial development is permitted, a diagonal cutoff of
15–feet × 15–feet in lieu of a 20–foot radius curve and a ten–foot ×
ten–foot cutoff in lieu of a 15–foot radius curve may be used. In industrial
zones the curves shall have a minimum radius of at least 40 feet.	5.	Curves –
Horizontal.  The center line radii of curves shall be as large as possible,
consistent with conditions. All curves shall have sufficient length to avoid the
appearance of an angle point. Reversing curves shall be connected by tangents of
length approved by the City Engineer as sufficient to safely reverse the
unbalanced centrifugal force. In any case, horizontal curves shall have the
following minimum center line radii:Major and Secondary Highways	1,000 feet
Collector Streets	500 feet
Local Streets, Not Hillside	300 feet
Local Streets, Hillside Area	125 feet	6.	Intersections. Street intersections
shall be as near right angle as possible. No jogs shall be allowed in the
continuity of a major or secondary highway. Jogs in a minor or local street
where crossing major or secondary highways shall be held to a minimum. Multiple
intersections of more than four approaches should be avoided. In hillside areas
special conditions may be required.	7.	Cul-de-sac Streets. Where cul–de–sac
streets are approved, they shall be terminated by a turning area conforming to
the latest standards approved by the Commission.	8.	General. (Added by Ord. No.
157,811, Eff. 8/13/83.) All streets within and/or immediately adjacent to the
subdivision shall be improved with curbs and gutters, unless not required by the
Advisory Agency upon recommendation of the City Engineer.	Streets within and/or
immediately adjacent to the subdivision shall be improved with sidewalks, except
that in mountainous, hillside or rural areas, sidewalks may be omitted or may be
provided on only one side of the street with the approval of the Advisory
Agency.	E.	Alleys.	1.	Alleys shall be not less than 20 feet in width. Alley
serving industrial zones shall be 30 feet wide, unless otherwise approved by the
Advisory Agency. All dead-end alleys shall be provided with adequate turning
areas. Whenever practicable alleys shall be required at the rear of all lots
which are in residential zones and which front a major or secondary highway;
alleys may also be required at the rear of lots in commercial and industrial
zones.	2.	Alley Intersections.  Where two alleys intersect, a triangular corner
cut-off of not less than ten feet along each alley line shall be
provided.	F.	Pedestrian Walks.  If it is determined by the Advisory Agency that
inner-block pedestrian walks are necessary for the public health, safety or
welfare, they shall be dedicated to a width of not less than 10
feet.	G.	Blocks.  Blocks shall not exceed 1,700 feet in length, except in hilly
areas. The number of intersections of local streets with major and secondary
highways shall be kept at a minimum.	H.	Lot Size.  (Amended by Ord. No.
141,474, Eff. 2/27/71.)  Every lot shall have a minimum width and area to
comply with the requirements as specified in Article 2 of this chapter for the
zone in which the lot is located, provided, however, that every lot located in a
“C” Commercial Zone and for which no minimum width is specified in said
article shall have a minimum width of 40 feet. All lots in a residential planned
development shall comply with the standard residential conditions of Sec. 13.04
of this Code, and the conditions of approval of the development.	1.	(Amended by
Ord. No. 142,861, Eff. 2/4/72.)  When the Advisory Agency determines that
traffic access, topography, and drainage conditions will safely allow lot
averaging, and when the subdivider has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the
Advisory Agency in a written report that such averaging is consistent with
proper subdivision design, and in addition will produce, one or more of the
following benefits: require less grading than would a subdivision of
conventional design not utilizing lot averaging; result in improved lot design;
or produce other environmental benefits; the Advisory agency may permit the
width and area of not more than 20 percent of the lots in a subdivision located
in the “H” Hillside or Mountainous Area to be reduced as specified below,
provided that the average area of all lots in said subdivision is not less than
the following requirements:[LOT AREA IN SQUARE FEET]
(Amended by Ord. No. 142,861, Eff. 2/4/72.)
  
    
      
        [Zone]
      
      
        Minimum to Which Lot Width May Be Reduced
      
      
        Minimum to Which Area May Be Reduced
      
      
        Average Requirement
      
    
    
      
        RA-H
      
      
        63 feet
      
      
        14,000
      
      
        17,500
      
    
    
      
        RE40-H
      
      
        No Reduction
      
      
        32,000
      
      
        40,000
      
    
    
      
        RE20-H
      
      
        72 feet
      
      
        16,000
      
      
        20,000
      
    
    
      
        RE15-H
      
      
        72 feet
      
      
        12,000
      
      
        15,000
      
    
    
      
        RE11-H
      
      
        63 feet
      
      
        8,800
      
      
        11,000
      
    
    
      
        RE9-H
      
      
        60 feet
      
      
        7,200
      
      
        9,000
      
    
  
	In computing such average, that portion of any lot exceeding 150 percent of the
average requirement shall not be included, provided however, that in the RA Zone
the maximum area of any lot that may be used in computing the average shall be
24,500 square feet.	In a tract wherein one or more lots have less than the
average requirement for the zone, no lot shall be rearranged or divided unless:
(1) the average requirement for the original Final Map is maintained, and (2)
such rearrangement or division is accomplished by recording a new Final Map or a
Parcel Map, or by securing determination that said proposed rearrangement or
division is exempt from the Parcel Map procedure as provided for in Section
17.50B,3(c).  (Amended by Ord. No. 146,985, Eff. 4/11/75.)	2.	Where it finds it
necessary in order to promote the general welfare, the Advisory Agency may
require that lots which are contiguous or nearby to existing lots on the same
street may be increased in size so as to be compatible with the size of such
existing lots. However, in no case may the Advisory Agency require such lots to
contain an area of over 50 per cent more than that required by the applicable
provisions of Article 2 of this chapter.	3.	Property in commercial or industrial
ones need not be divided into more than one lot where such property is to be
operated as a unit.	4.	Each portion of the lot which is platted so as to be
divided by a City or County boundary line shall be given a separate letter or
number on the recorded tract map.	5.	The side lines of lots shall be
approximately at right angles to the streets, or radial to the street on curved
streets, except where topography or other conditions make this
impracticable.	6.	Where it finds that there will be no material increase in the
dwelling unit density permitted by the zone, and that the public health, safety
or welfare and good subdivision design would be promoted by the dedication of
public streets to a width in excess of the approved standards provided for in
this section, or the dedication of service roads, or the dedication or
reservation of land for public parks, public uses or other open areas, the
Advisory Agency may permit the required area of one or more of the lots in a
subdivision in an RA, RE, or RS Zone to be reduced to the extent of such
dedication or reservation. Provided however, that in no event shall such a
reduction exceed 15%; and, no lot in a RA-H or RE-H Zone shall be permitted to
be reduced below the minimum area specified therefor in Subdivision 1. of this
subsection.  (Added by Ord. No. 129,693, Eff. 5/2/65.)	7.	Where the Advisory
Agency finds the project is consistent with the dwelling unit density permitted
by the General Plan, and that the public health, safety or welfare and good
subdivision design will be promoted by the preservation of protected trees, the
Advisory Agency may permit the required area of one or more of the lots in a
subdivision in an “RA,” “RE,” “RS” or “R1&#038;″ Zone to be
reduced by an amount sufficient to provide for protected tree preservation in
accordance with Section 17.05 R. of this Code.  Provided, however, that in no
event shall the reduction exceed 50 percent of the required lot area; no
“RA” or “RE” lot shall be reduced below 50 feet in width; no “RS” or
“R1&#038;″ lot shall be reduced below 40 feet in width; and no lot in a
designated “K” Horsekeeping District shall be reduced below 17,500 square
feet.  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,404, Eff. 4/23/06.)	8.	Notwithstanding any
other provision of this Code, where the Advisory Agency finds that there will be
no increase in density and that the density provisions of the General Plan will
not be exceeded, it may approve subdivisions in the R2, RD, R3, R4 and R5 zones,
meeting the requirements of Section 12.22 C.25. of this Code. The minimum lot
area of lots in any such subdivision shall be 2,500 square feet.  (Added by
Ord. No. 159,532, Eff. 1/3/85.)	9.	In calculating the density of a subdivision
proposed to be developed with residences permitted by Sections 12.08.3 B.1. and
12.22 C.25. of this Code, the area contained within public streets shall be
deducted from the gross area of the subdivision; however, the area contained
within private streets, public alleys and driveways shall not be deducted from
the gross area of the subdivision.  (Added by Ord. No. 159,532, Eff.
1/3/85.)	10.	In calculating the allowable floor area of a subdivision proposed
to be developed as a residential (including Apartment Hotel or mixed use)
building in the Greater Downtown Housing Incentive Area, any land required to be
dedicated for street purposes shall be included as part of the lot area of the
subdivision.  (Added by Ord. No. 179,076, Eff. 9/23/07.)	I.	Easements. 
Easements for public utilities, water system, sewers, street lights, storm
drains or flood control channels, and slope rights shall be provided wherever
determined necessary by the Advisory Agency upon recommendations of the City
Engineer.	Wherever it is determined that future easements are necessary, a
certificate shall be placed on the Final Map indicating that the City may accept
such easements at any time.	J.	Hillside Areas.  Design requirements for
subdivisions in hillside areas shall meet the grading standards established by
the Board of Public Work and the grading regulations established by Article I,
Chapter 9 of this Code. Such requirements may also include providing soil
reports prepared by a Registered Civil Engineer specializing in Soil Mechanics
and/or reports on geological investigations.	K.	Problem Areas.  Areas
designated by resolution of the Board of Public Works as problem areas shall not
be subdivided except when approved by the Advisory Agency upon recommendation of
the Superintendent of Building and the City Engineer.	L.	Grading Plans. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 142,877, Eff. 2/24/ 72.)  The Advisory Agency may require
a proposed grading plan with the Tentative Map of any subdivision. Upon
recommendation of the Superintendent of Building or the City Engineer, or where
it appears that cuts and fills will occur in the grading of the property which
may be contrary to the objectives of this article, the Advisory Agency shall
require the subdivider to submit grading plans for all or part of the tract
before action on the Tentative Map will be taken. Any grading plan submitted
shall contain thereon a statement of the quantities (in cubic yards) of cut and
fill and quantities of export or import material involved. If the amount of
earth material to be imported to or exported from a subdivision site is 1,000
cubic yards or more, statements of the following shall also be included: the
proposed borrow or disposal site; the proposed haul route; the total gross
weight with load of the proposed haul vehicles; as well as other pertinent data
which the Advisory Agency may require.	Failure to furnish such a grading plan
(where necessary to complete the investigation of the Tentative Map within the
time specified in the written notice requesting its submission) shall be cause
for the disapproval of the Tentative Map unless an extension of the time for
acting on said map is mutually agreed upon between the subdivider and the
Advisory Agency.	If changes in the design of the lots or street system can be
made to correct the conditions set forth in Subsection J. of this section,
either by increased lot sizes or changes in grades, such modifications shall be
made.	M.	Storm Drains.  (Amended by Ord. No. 139,199, Eff. 10/10/69.)  Storm
drains shall be designed in conformance with standards approved by the City
Engineer. Storm drain facilities to intercept and convey all runoff to a
suitable point of disposal shall be required when runoff from the entire area
tributary to and including the subdivision exceeds the limiting depth of street
flow as determined by the City Engineer. These storm drain requirements shall
also include the following:	1.	In areas without sumps, storm drains shall be
designed to remove all runoff from a storm of 10-year frequency.	2.	In sump
areas, storm drains shall be designed to remove all runoff from a storm of
50-year frequency.	3.	Storm drains shall be of sufficient capacity in all cases
to prevent flooding of building sites from a storm of 50-year frequency.	4.	On
sidehill streets, the maximum depth of water as determined by the City Engineer
shall be based on a storm of 50-year frequency.	N.	Installation Of Utilities. 
(Added by Ord. No. 131,820, Eff. 3/28/66.)  Utility lines, including but not
limited to those required for electricity, communication, street lighting and
cable television services necessary for the general use of the lot owners in the
subdivision, shall be installed or guaranteed to be installed in the same manner
as other required improvements.	In all portions of a Tract Map area classified
in the A, R or C zones, all such utility lines shall be installed underground,
provided, however, that incidental, appurtenant equipment such as transformers,
terminal boxes and meter cabinets may be placed above ground but shall conform
with regard to placement and height with those standards adopted by the
Commission as it determines are necessary to safeguard the public against
hazards created by said equipment and to further the purposes of this article.
The Subdivision Committee shall make its report and recommendation of the
Commission prior to the adoption of said standards.  (Amended by Ord. No.
146,985, Eff. 4/11/75.)	The subdivider shall make the necessary Cost and other
arrangements for such underground installation and for relocation of existing
facilities with each of the persons, firms, or corporations furnishing utility
services involved.	O.	Sites for Models.  (Amended by Ord. No. 172,839, Eff.
11/1/99.)  Not more than 15% of the lots and in no case more than 20 lots at
any one time in a subdivision may be designated as sites for the construction of
models, and, with respect to multiple unit structures, not more than 15% of the
units and in no case more than 20 units at any one time in a proposed building
designated as a model site, may be designated as models.	Each of the sites shall
be located in a manner as to not adversely affect existing developed residential
properties.  Further, each of the sites shall be easily accessible and
provision for the accessibility shall be assured at the time that the tentative
map is conditionally approved.	P.	Park And Recreation Sites.  Park and
recreation sites to serve the future inhabitants of each new subdivision shall
be provided and located in conformance with the standards contained in the
Recreation Element of the General Plan.  (Amended by Ord. No. 141,422, Eff.
2/11/71.)	Q.	Where Subdivision Includes Land Within Drainage District. 
Whenever a Subdivision or a portion thereof includes land which is within a
Local Drainage District, the provisions and requirements of the ordinance
establishing such District shall be complied with.  (Added by Ord. No. 142,862,
Eff. 2/13/72.)	R.	Protected Tree Regulations.  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,404,
Eff. 4/23/06.)  No protected tree may be relocated or removed except as
provided in this article or Article 6 of Chapter IV of this Code.  The term
“removed” or “removal” shall include any act that will cause a protected
tree to die, including but not limited to acts that inflict damage upon the root
system or other parts of the tree by fire, application of toxic substances,
operation of equipment or machinery, or by changing the natural grade of land by
excavation or filling the drip line area around the trunk.	1.	Required
Determinations.  Subject to historical preservation requirements set forth in
Subdivision 3. of this subsection, when a protected tree exists within a
proposed subdivision, the tree may be relocated or removed if the Advisory
Agency, in consultation with the City’s Chief Forester, determines the
existence of either (a) or (b) below:	(a)	There has been prior applicable
government action in which:	(i)	The removal of the tree had been approved by the
Advisory Agency; or	(ii)	The property upon which the protected tree is located
has been the subject of a determination by the City Planning Commission, the
City Council, a Zoning Administrator, or an Area Planning Commission, the appeal
period established by this Code with respect to the determination has expired,
the determination is still in effect, and pursuant to the determination, the
protected tree’s removal would be permissible; or	(iii)	A building permit has
been issued for the property upon which the protected tree is located, the
permit is still in effect, and the removal or relocation is not prohibited by
the permit.	(b)	The removal of the protected tree would not result in an
undesirable, irreversible soil erosion through diversion or increased flow of
surface waters that cannot be mitigated to the satisfaction of the City’s
Chief Forester, and the physical condition or location of the tree is such
that:	(i)	Its continued presence in its existing location prevents the
reasonable development of the property; or	(ii)	According to a report required
pursuant to Section 17.06 C., acceptable to the Advisory Agency and prepared by
a tree expert, there is a substantial decline from a condition of normal health
and vigor of the tree, and its restoration through appropriate and economically
reasonable preservation procedures and practices is not advisable; or	(iii)	It
is in danger of falling due to an existing and irreversible condition.	(iv)	Its
continued presence at its existing location interferes with proposed utility
services or roadways within or without the subject property, and the only
reasonable alternative to the interference is the removal of the tree; or	(v)	It
has no apparent aesthetic value, which will contribute to the appearance and
design of the proposed subdivision; or it is not located with reference to other
trees or monuments in such a way as to acquire a distinctive significance at the
location.	2.	Supplemental Authority.  In the event the Advisory Agency, in
consultation with the City’s Chief Forester, determines pursuant to
Subdivision 1.(b) above, that a protected tree may be removed or relocated, the
Advisory Agency may:	(a)	Require relocation elsewhere on the same property where
a protected tree has been approved for removal, and where the relocation is
economically reasonable and favorable to the survival of the tree.  Relocation
to a site other than upon the same property may be permitted where there is no
available or appropriate location on the property and the owner of the proposed
off-site relocation site consents to the placement of a tree.  In the event of
relocation, the Advisory Agency may designate measures to be taken to mitigate
adverse effects on the tree.	(b)	Permit protected trees of a lesser size, or
trees of a different species, to be planted as replacement trees for protected
trees permitted by this Code to be removed or relocated, if replacement trees
required pursuant to this Code are not available.  In that event, the Advisory
Agency may require a greater number of replacement trees.	3.	Historical
Monuments.  The Advisory Agency, except as to Subdivision 1.(b)(iii) above,
shall require retention of a protected tree at its existing location, if the
tree is officially designated as an Historical Monument or as part of an
Historic Preservation Overlay Zone.	4.	Requirements.  In the event the Advisory
Agency, in consultation with the City’s Chief Forester, determines pursuant to
Subdivision 1.(b) above that a protected tree may be removed or relocated, the
Advisory Agency shall require that:	(a)	The protected tree is replaced within
the property by at least two trees of a protected variety included within the
definition set forth in Section 17.02 of this article, except where the
protected tree is relocated pursuant to Subdivision 2.(a) above.  The size of
each replacement tree shall be a 15-gallon, or larger, specimen, measuring one
inch or more in diameter at a point one foot above the base, and not less than
seven feet in height, measured from the base.  The size and number of
replacement trees shall approximate the value of the tree to be
replaced.	(b)	The subdivider record those covenants and agreements approved by
the Advisory Agency necessary to assure compliance with conditions imposed by
the Advisory Agency and to assure protected tree preservation.	(c)	The
subdivider provide protected tree maintenance information to purchasers of lots
within the proposed subdivision.	(d)	The subdivider post a bond or other
assurance acceptable to the City Engineer to guarantee the survival of trees
required to be replaced or permitted or required to be relocated, in a manner to
assure the existence of continuously living trees at the approved replacement or
relocation site for three years from the date that the trees are replaced or
relocated.  The City Engineer shall use the provisions of Section 17.08 G. as
its procedural guide in satisfaction of the bond requirements and processing. 
Any bond required shall be in a sum estimated by the City Engineer to be equal
to the dollar value of the replacement tree or of the tree that is to be
relocated.  In determining value for these purposes, the City Engineer shall
consult with the Advisory Agency, the City’s Chief Forester, the evaluation of
trees guidelines approved and adopted for professional plantsmen by the
International Society of Arboriculture, the American Society of Consulting
Arborists, the National Arborists Association and the American Association of
Nurserymen, and other available, local information or guidelines.	5.	Grading. 
The Advisory Agency is authorized to prohibit grading or other construction
activity within the drip line of a protected tree.	S.	Mulholland Scenic
Parkway.  (Amended by Ord. No. 156,534, Eff. 4/24 /82.)  Notwithstanding the
street standards adopted by the City Planning Commission pursuant to this
section, the width and improvement standards for the Mulholland Scenic Parkway
shall be substantially as follows: two travel lanes, one in each direction, each
15 feet wide; passing lane segments and turn pockets where necessary to
facilitate movement of traffic; substantial conformance to existing roadway
alignment; no median strip except to facilitate turning movements; hard surfaced
shoulders but with a natural look, separated from the roadway by a painted line
where the shoulder is utilized for bikeway purposes; minimum street and driveway
access to the Parkway; reasonable protection of a scenic corridor 500 feet more
or less, depending on topography, from each side of the existing right-of-way,
to preserve the scenic quality and for the development of parks, vista points,
parking facilities, and continuous bicycle, equestrian and hiking trails; all
utilities to be underground; all necessary signs and road related fixtures to be
of a special design to blend with the scenic character of the Parkway; grading
to be kept to an absolute minimum; all necessary grading to be gently contoured
and fully landscaped with fire–resistant plants to present a natural
appearance.	It shall be the duty of the Advisory Agency to interpret and apply
these standards in conformance with the spirit and intent of the Report of the
Citizens’ Advisory Committee on the Mulholland Scenic Parkway as adopted as
City policy by the City Council on March 26, 1973, under Council File No.
70-5000, or with such Parkway plans as may subsequently be adopted.	Said
standards are applicable to any subdivision or parcel map within 500 feet of the
right-of-way of Mulholland Drive between the Hollywood Freeway on the west and
Mulholland Highway on the west and along Mulholland Highway to the southerly
city boundary, as shown on the City Engineer’s official cadastral or district
maps.	T.	Valley Circle Boulevard – Plummer Street Scenic Corridor.  (Added
by  Ord. No. 151,615, Eff. 12/3/78.)  Notwithstanding the street standards
adopted by the City Planning Commission pursuant to this section, the width and
improvement standards for Valley Circle Boulevard from Roscoe Boulevard to
Plummer Street and for Plummer Street from Valley Circle Boulevard to Topanga
Canyon Boulevard shall be substantially as follows:	1.	Two travel lanes, one in
each direction;	2.	Left turn pockets as needed;	3.	48 feet of paved roadway,
including 2–foot wide concrete gutters and curbs;	4.	No continuous raised
median strip;	5.	Wide shoulders to accommodate recreation trails;	6.	Minimum
street and driveway access to the roadway;	7.	All utilities to be
underground;	8.	Lighting only at intersections and parking areas, and kept to a
minimum useful Intensity;	9.	Fire Hydrants and light standards located away from
the roadway for increased safety;	10.	Picnic areas, drinking fountains,
restrooms facilities, watering troughs, hitching rails and simple shade
structures provided at suitable locations;	11.	The general design and
development of the roadway, trails, turnouts, and all appurtenant fixtures,
facilities and amenities to be rustic, natural and in keeping with the scenic
character of the corridor;	12.	Reasonable protection of a scenic corridor, 1500
feet more or less depending on topography, from each side of the existing
rights–of–way, to preserve the scenic quality, protect long–distance
views, and for the development of parks, vista points, parking facilities, and
continuous trails;	13.	Specific dimension standards for a 100-foot-wide
right-of-way, the preferred width, shall be a 14-foot-wide two-way bicycle path,
a hiking trail meandering in a 10-foot–wide landscaped parkway, a 16-foot-wide
equestrian trail bordered by bolted wood fences and a 12-foot-wide parkway on
the opposite side of the roadway;	14.	The dimension standards for an
86-foot-wide right-of-way shall be a 12- foot-wide two-way bicycle path, hiking
trail meandering in an 8-foot-wide landscaped parkway, a 12-foot-wide equestrian
trail bordered by bolted wood fences and a 6-foot-wide parkway on the opposite
side of the roadway;	15.	Trails to be built prior to or concurrently with the
roadway, and to have suitable crossings and access to areas of
interest;	16.	Attractively designed masonry walls and/or screening landscaping
along the edges of private developments adjacent to the scenic
corridor;	17.	Maximum preservation of natural terrain and
vegetation;	18.	Grading to be kept to an absolute minimum; all necessary grading
to be gently contoured and fully landscaped with native, low-water-need,
fire-resistant plants to present a natural appearance;	19.	All buildings in the
corridor to be placed so as to preserve a clear line of sight from the roadway
to the visible mountain crest;	20.	Off-site advertising signs to be prohibited
within the corridor;	21.	On-site advertising, traffic, informational and
regulatory signs to be kept to a minimum number and size, and to be of special
rustic design.	It shall be the duty of the Advisory Agency to interpret and
apply these standards in conformance with the spirit and intent of the Valley
Circle Boulevard  Plummer Street Scenic Corridor Study adopted as City policy
by the City Council on March 28, 1977, under Council File No. 77-82, or with
such parkway plans as may subsequently be adopted.	The standards stated herein
are applicable to any subdivision or parcel map within 1500 feet of the
right-of-way of Valley Circle Boulevard from Roscoe Boulevard to Plummer Street
and of Plummer Street from Valley Circle Boulevard to Topanga Canyon Boulevard
as shown on the City Engineer’s official cadastral or district
maps.	U.	Preliminary Soils Report.  (Added by Ord. No. 157,517, Eff. 5/2/83,) A
preliminary soils report, prepared by a civil engineer registered in California,
and based upon adequate test borings is required with the Tentative Map of any
subdivision. Provided that the Advisory Agency may waive the preliminary soils
report upon its determination that no preliminary analysis is necessary due to
its knowledge of the soils qualities of the soils of the subdivision.	If the
preliminary soils report indicates the presence of critically expansive soils or
other soils problems which, if not corrected, would lead to structural defects,
a soils investigation of each lot in the subdivision may be required. Such soils
investigation shall be done by a civil engineer registered in California, who
shall recommend the corrective action which is likely to prevent structural
damage to each structure proposed to be constructed in the area where such soils
problem exists. The Advisory Agency may approve the subdivision or a portion
thereof where such soils problems exist if it determines that the recommended
corrective action is likely to prevent structural damage to each structure to be
constructed, and as a condition to the issuance of any building permit may
require that the approved recommended action be incorporated in the construction
of each structure.
