                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

FINAL MAP. (§ 17.07)

  FINAL MAP.	A.	Time Limit.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,106, Eff. 5/20/12.) 
The following provisions establish the term of tentative map
approvals:	1.	Within 36 months after the approval or conditional approval of the
Tentative Map, the subdivider shall cause the proposed subdivision to be
accurately surveyed and a final map prepared and filed with the City Engineer. 
The failure of a subdivider to file a map with the City Engineer within that
period and to have the map submitted by the City Engineer to the City Council
within  the specified time limit shall automatically terminate and void the
proceedings unless the time is extended by the Advisory Agency, the Appeal
Board, or the City Council upon appeal from a denial of the extension by the
Advisory Agency.  The appeal shall follow the time limits and procedures set
forth in Subdivisions 3., 4., and 5. of Subsection A. of Section 17.06 of this
Code.	2.	The time limit for filing the final map with the City Engineer and
submittal by the City Engineer of the final map to the City Council may be
extended for a period or periods not exceeding a total of 72 months including
the initial 36 month term.	EXCEPTION.  The term of a tentative map approval
shall be automatically extended pursuant to the provisions of California
Governmental Code Sections 66452.21, 66452.22, and 66452.23, and any other
current or future provision of the Subdivision Map Act that operates to extend
the term of a tentative map approval.	B.	Procedure.  A shall be prepared and
filed with the City Engineer in compliance with the provisions of this article.
Final Maps shall conform substantially to the approved Tentative Map. When a
Final Map covers only a portion of the property shown on the Tentative Map, it
shall be submitted to the Advisory Agency for its approval prior to submission
to the City Engineer for checking. The Advisory Agency may refuse to approve the
recording of any such map that does not by itself provide adequate or
satisfactory access, design or improvements. The City Engineer may refuse to
approve the recording of a Final Map covering only a portion of a Tentative Map,
when in the process of checking the Final Map, he determines that it will not be
feasible from an engineering standpoint to construct satisfactory improvements
in the reduced area, unless additional street or easement dedications and
improvements beyond the boundaries of the Final Map are provided.	1.	The Final
Map shall be accepted by the City Council provided;	(a)	The necessary
improvements as set forth in the approval of the Tentative Map have been
installed and approved by the City, or provided the subdivider submits
satisfactory improvement plans together with the necessary guarantee that the
improvements will be installed.	(b)	The required map checking fees have been
paid by the subdivider.	(c)	All checking has been completed by the various
departments and public agencies.	(d)	Taxes, liens and special assessments have
been paid, or such payment guaranteed.	2.	No Final Map shall be recorded until
the required improvements have been installed or agreed to be
installed.	C.	Final Map Requirements. The following information shall be
submitted with the Final Map: names, addresses and telephone numbers of the
record owners, subdivider and person preparing the Final Map. The general form
and layout of the map, including size and type of lettering, drafting and
location of acknowledgments, etc. shall be determined by the City Engineer. The
map shall be prepared on high–quality tracing cloth or other material approved
by the City Engineer. (Amended by Ord. No. 129,575, Eff. 4/4/65.)	1.	Each sheet
of said Final Map shall be 18 × 26 inches. A marginal line shall be drawn
completely around each sheet, leaving a blank margin of one inch. The scale of
the map shall be such as to show all details clearly. Each sheet shall be
numbered, and its relation to other sheets clearly shown. The tract number,
scale and north point shall be shown on each sheet. If more than three sheets
are necessary to show the entire subdivision, an index map shall be included on
one of the sheets. The boundary line of a subdivision shall be indicated by
distinctive symbols and clearly so designated. (Amended by Ord. No. 146,985,
Eff. 4/11/75.)	2.	Where any land to be subdivided is separated or divided into
two or more parcels or portions by any parcel of land other than a street,
highway, or other public way, or a railroad, public utility or flood control
right of way, each separate parcel or portion thereof shall be subdivided as a
separate parcel and shown on a separate subdivision map.	D.	Boundary Evidence.
Such stakes, monuments or other evidence determining the boundaries of the
subdivision as are found on the ground, together with sufficient designations of
adjoining subdivisions by lot and tract number and page of record, or by
section, township and range, or other proper legal description as may be
necessary to locate precisely the limits of the subdivision, shall be clearly
and fully shown on the Final Map.	E.	Monuments.	1.	Boundary. (Amended by Ord.
No. 129,967, Eff. 6/14/65.) Each Final Map shall show durable monuments of not
less than two–inch steel pipe at least 24 inches long found or set at or near
each boundary corner and at intermediate points, approximately 1,000 feet apart,
or at such lesser distance as may be necessary by topography or culture to
assure accuracy in reestablishment of any point or line without unreasonable
difficulty. The precise position and character of each monument shall be shown
on the Final Map. Where the elevation of the top of each such monument is not
approximately level with the surface of the ground, its relative position shall
be indicated.	The establishment of boundary monuments may be required by the
Advisory Agency, the Appeal Board or the City Council upon appeal, prior to the
recordation of the Final Map, however, such requirement may be modified to
accept the submission of complete field notes as evidence of a thorough survey,
or the setting of only a portion of the boundary monuments, or the referencing
of monuments to adjacent reference points. The City Engineer shall submit a
recommendation concerning this matter. Said reference points shall be indicated
in a set of field notes showing clearly the ties between such monuments and
sufficient number to set accurately each boundary monument after recordation of
the Final Map. Said boundary monuments shall be properly located by coordinates
in the California Coordinate System or in such manner as determined by the City
Engineer to be suitable and sufficient	2.	Center Line. Complete center line
data, including lengths of tangents and semi-tangents, shall be shown on the map
for all streets within or adjoining the tract where no official center line has
been previously established. In locations where the point of intersection falls
on private property, chords shall be shown instead of semi-tangents. The
subdivider shall have approved monuments placed with permanent references
thereto and furnish a set of field notes to the City Engineer.	3.	Deferment. In
the event any or all of the monuments required to be set are subsequent to the
recordation of the Final Map, the map shall clearly show and describe such
monuments. All such monuments or the furnishing of notes thereon so deferred
shall be agreed to be set and furnished by the subdivider.	When the placement of
monuments is to be deferred, the Bureau of Engineering shall charge and collect
a fee of $430 for the service of receiving and processing a bond to guarantee
placement of the monuments.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,237, Eff.
9/28/12.)	4.	Geodetic Controls. Ties to the Geodetic Triangulation System shall
be provided where stations thereof have been established within reasonable
distance from the subdivision boundary, and such ties are deemed necessary by
the City Engineer.	F.	Surveys.	1.	Requirements. The procedure and practice of
all survey work, done on any subdivision, shall conform to the accepted
standards of engineering and surveying professions. The Final Map shall close in
all its parts.	In the event the City Engineer shall have established the center
line of any street or alley in or adjoining a subdivision, the Final Map shall
show such center line together with the reference to a field book or map showing
such center line and the monuments which determine its position. If determined
by ties, that fact shall be stated on the Final Map.	2.	Notes to be Furnished.
For such center line monument set, the engineer or surveyor under whose
supervision the survey has been made shall furnish to the City Engineer a set of
notes showing clearly the ties such monument and a sufficient number (normally
four) of durable distinctive reference points or monuments. Such reference
points may be lead and tacks in sidewalks, or curbs, or two–inch × two–inch
stakes set back of the curb line and below the surface of the ground or such
substitute thereof as appears to be not more likely to be disturbed.	Such set of
notes shall be of such quality, form and completeness, and shall be on paper of
such quality and size as may be necessary to conform to the standardized office
records of the City Engineer. All such notes shall be indexed by the City
Engineer as part of the permanent public records of his
office.	3.	Identification Marks. All monuments set as required herein shall be
permanently and visibly marked or tagged with the registration or license number
of the engineer or surveyor under whose supervision the survey was
made.	G.	Bearings.	1.	Basis. The Final Map shall indicate thereon the basis of
bearings, making reference to some recorded subdivision map, or other record
acceptable to the City Engineer.	The Final Map shall have as the basis of
bearings a line based on the Geodetic Triangulation System where ties to said
system are deemed feasible by the City Engineer.	2.	Distances. The bearing and
length of each lot line, block line and boundary line shall be shown on the
Final Map, and each required bearing and distance shall be indicated.	H.	Lot
Numbers. The lots shall be numbered consecutively commencing with the number 1,
except as otherwise provided herein, with no omissions or duplications. each
numbered lot shall be shown entirely on one sheet.	I.	Curve Data. The length,
radius and total central angle and bearings of terminal radii of each curve and
the bearing of each radial line to each lot corner on each curve, and the
central angle of each segment within each lot shall be shown on the Final
Map.	J.	Easements.	1.	Lines. The Final Map shall show all the necessary data
including width and side lines of all public easements to which the lots in the
subdivision are subject. If the easement is not definitely located on record, a
statement as to the easement shall appear on the title sheet.	2.	Designation.
Easements shall be denoted by broken lines.	3.	Identification. Each easement
shall be clearly labeled and identified and, if already of record, proper
reference to the records given. Easements being dedicated shall be so indicated
in the Certificate of Dedication.	K.	City Boundary Lines.  City boundary lines
crossing or abutting the subdivision shall be clearly designated and tied
in.	L.	Natural Water Course Designation. In the event that a dedication of right
of way for flood control or storm drainage is not required, the location of any
natural water course shall be shown on the Final Map, unless such natural water
course, channel, stream or creek is , shown on the grading plans to be filled or
otherwise eliminated by the grading of the tract.	M.	Title Sheet. The title
sheet for each Final Map of a subdivision shall contain all the certificates and
acknowledgment required by the Subdivision Map Act. The wording of such
certificates and acknowledgments shall be approved by the City Attorney. Forms
of certificates and acknowledgment may be obtained from the City Engineer.	In
addition to the certificates required by the Subdivision Map Act, the City
Engineer shall certify that the subdivision substantially conform to the
approved Tentative Map, and the required public improvements have been installed
or agreed to be installed. If any portion of a subdivision is located in a
hillside area, it shall not be certified by the City Engineer until the
Superintendent of Building has submitted a report to him that said portion has
been graded in accordance with approved plans as required by Article 1 of
Chapter 9 of the Municipal Code, or that an agreement to so grade has been
entered into.	N.	Park And Recreation Sites. (Added by Ord. No. 141,422, Eff.
2/11/71.) If the Advisory Agency has required dedication of the land for park
and recreation sites as a condition of approval of a Tentative Map, the City
Engineer shall not certify the Final Map to the City Council unless it includes
such offer of dedication for said required land, provided, however, that said
offer may be by separate instrument. If the Advisory Agency has required the
payment of fees for the acquisition and development of park and recreation sites
and facilities as a condition of approval of a Tentative Map, such fees shall be
paid to the Department of Recreation and Parks to be deposited in appropriate
trust accounts in the Recreation and Parks Fund. The Department of Recreation
and Parks shall notify the City Engineer of receipt of such fees. The City
Engineer may then certify the Final Map. If the Final Map is not recorded, then,
upon the written request of the subdivider, the Department of Recreation and
Parks shall process and approve the refund of such fees to the subdivider.
