                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

TENTATIVE MAP AND APPEALS. (§ 17.06)

  TENTATIVE MAP AND APPEALS.	A.	Procedure.	1.	Filing Notice and Reports. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 165,851, Eff. 6/11/90.)  The subdivider shall pay the
necessary fees for and file with the City Planning Department at least 25 copies
of the Tentative Map, two copies of an area map showing the location of
ownerships which are located within the area covered by the Tentative Map and
within a 500-foot radius of the proposed subdivision; and two copies of a
certified list showing the names and addresses of owners of all property and the
addresses of all residential, commercial, and industrial occupants of all
property located within 500 feet of the proposed subdivision. Thereafter, the
Department shall forthwith furnish a copy of the certified list of names and
addresses and a copy of the area map to the Bureau of Engineering and copies of
the Tentative Map to each member of the Subdivision Committee and to any other
departments or public agencies which the Advisory Agency had determined may have
an interest in the proposed subdivision. The members of said committee shall
make such examination of the map and property, and make such reports and
recommendations to the Advisory Agency as they find are necessary. All such
reports must be submitted in writing. Such reports shall be made within 39
calendar days after the filing of the map or within such additional time as the
Advisory Agency may approve.	The members of said committee shall, at the time of
the submission of their reports to the Advisory Agency, submit copies of such
reports to the subdivider. This requirement shall be deemed complied with when
such reports or recommendations are placed in the mail, directed to the
subdivider at his designated address, and bearing the proper postage. Failure of
any member of said committee to submit his report in writing within the time
limits specified above shall be construed as indicating that said member has no
recommendation to submit concerning the Tentative Map.	The Department shall
notify all persons shown on the required list and map provided by the
subdivider.  Such notification shall be in writing and mailed not less than ten
days prior to the Tentative Map being considered by the Advisory Agency.	Notice
of the public hearing shall be posted, by the applicant, in a conspicuous place
on the property involved at least ten days prior to the date of the public
hearing.	2.	Action of Advisory Agency.  (Amended by Ord. No. 143,254, Eff.
5/14/72.)  The Advisory Agency shall approve, conditionally approve or
disapprove the Tentative Map within 50 calendar days after the filing of the Map
with the City or within such additional time as mutually agreed upon by the
Advisory Agency and the Subdivider.	(a)	The Advisory Agency may disapprove a
Tentative Map because of the flood hazard, inundation, lack of adequate access,
lack of adequate water supply or fire protection, insufficient sewerage
facilities, potentially hazardous geological conditions or non–compliance with
the requirements of this article, the Subdivision Map Act, or the standards,
rules or regulations adopted by the Commission pursuant to the provisions of
Section 17.05 of this Code.	(b)	Whenever two or more lots are to be created on a
common slope and the City Engineer or Superintendent of Building determines that
conditions so dictate, the Advisory Agency may require as a condition of
approval of the Tentative Map that appropriate deed covenants, on a form
approved by the City Attorney, be recorded which provide to each owner of said
common slope a joint right of entry for necessary access of men and equipment,
and a joint easement over the slope area to maintain and repair any portions of
said common slope.	(c)	All streets on the Tentative Map shall be identified by
their proposed names. All proposed street names shall be approved by the City
Engineer. The Advisory Agency may withhold approval of the map if the City
Engineer has determined that a proposed street name would create confusion, be
misleading, be unduly long or carry connotations offensive to good taste and
decency.  (Added by Ord. No. 158,691, Eff. 3/12/84.)	(d)	When the Advisory
Agency has disapproved a Tentative Map of a proposed subdivision, it may
subsequently approve a new Tentative Map for the same property if it determines
that arrangements have been made to correct the conditions which were the cause
of the original disapproval within specified time limits.  (Redesignated (d),
Ord. No. 158,691, Eff. 3/12/84.)	(e)	When the Advisory Agency takes action on
the Tentative Map, it shall report its action in writing directly to the
subdivider and a copy of the Tentative Map showing the action taken by the
Advisory Agency on it shall be returned to the subdivider. The City Engineer and
the Department of Transportation shall be notified of the action of the Advisory
Agency.  (Redesignated (e), Ord. No. 158,691, Eff. 3/12/84.)	3.	Appeal to the
Appeal Board.  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)  The subdivider,
the Mayor, any member of the City Council, or any other interested person
adversely affected by the proposed subdivision may appeal any action of the
Advisory Agency with respect to the tentative map or the kind, nature or extent
of the improvement required to the Appeal Board.	Appeals to the Appeal Board
shall be filed in duplicate, in a public office of the Department of City
Planning on forms provided for that purpose within ten days of the date of
mailing of the written decision of the Advisory Agency and shall be accompanied
by the fee required in Section 19.02 of this Code.  No appeal shall be
considered filed until the form has been properly completed and all information
required by it has been submitted.  The completed appeal form and file shall
then immediately be transmitted to the Appeal Board Secretary for a public
hearing before the Appeal Board.	The Appeal Board, upon notice to the
subdivider, the appellant and the Advisory Agency, shall hear the appeal within
30 days after it is filed, unless the subdivider consents to an extension of
time pursuant to Subdivision 5. of this subsection.  At the time established
for the hearing, the Appeal Board shall hear the testimony of the subdivider,
the appellant, the Advisory Agency and any witnesses on their behalf.  The
Appeal Board may also hear the testimony of other competent persons with respect
to the character of the neighborhood in which the subdivision is to be located,
the kind, nature and extent of improvements, the quality or kinds of development
to which the area is best adapted or any other phase of the matter into which
the Appeal Board may desire to inquire.	Upon conclusion of the hearing, the
Appeal Board shall within ten days render its decision on the appeal based upon
the testimony and documents produced before it.  It may sustain, modify, reject
or overrule any recommendations or ruling of the Advisory Agency, and shall make
findings consistent with the provisions of this article and the Subdivision Map
Act.	Failure to Act.  If at the end of the time limit specified in this
subsection or at the end of any extension of time pursuant to subdivision 5. of
this subsection, the Appeal Board fails to act, the appeal shall be deemed
denied; the decision from which the appeal was taken shall be deemed affirmed
and an appeal may be filed and taken to the City Council pursuant to Subdivision
4. below.	4.	Appeal to Council.  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff.
12/18/05.)  The subdivider, the Mayor, any member of the City Council, the
Advisory Agency, or any other interested person adversely affected by the
proposed subdivision may appeal any action of the Appeal Board with respect to
the tentative map or the kinds, nature or extent of the improvements required by
the Appeal Board to the City Council.	Appeals to the City Council shall be filed
in duplicate, in a public office of the Department of City Planning on the forms
provided for that purpose within ten days of the date of mailing of the written
decision of the Appeal Board and shall be accompanied by the fee required in
Section 19.02 of this Code.  No appeal shall be considered filed until the form
has been properly completed and all information required by it has been
submitted.  The completed appeal form and file shall then immediately be
transmitted to the City Clerk for a public hearing before the City Council.	The
City Council shall hear the appeal within 30 days after it is filed, unless the
subdivider consents to an extension of time pursuant to Subdivision 5 of this
subsection.  The Council shall give notice of the hearing to the subdivider,
the appellant, the Appeal Board and the Advisory Agency.  At the time
established for the hearing, the Council or its Committee shall hear the
testimony of the subdivider, the appellant, the Advisory Agency and any
witnesses on their behalf.  The City Council may also hear the testimony of
other competent persons with respect to the character of the neighborhood in
which the subdivision is to be located, the kind, nature and extent of
improvements, the quality or kinds of development to which the area is best
adapted or any other phase of the matter into which the City Council may desire
to inquire.	Upon conclusion of the hearing, the City Council shall within ten
days render its decision on the appeal based upon the testimony and documents
produced before it.  The City Council may sustain, modify, reject or overrule
any recommendations or rulings of the Appeal Board and shall make findings
consistent with the provisions of this article and the Subdivision Map Act.	If
at the end of the time limit specified in this subsection, or at the end of any
extension of time pursuant to Subdivision 5. of this subsection, the City
Council fails to act, the appeal shall be deemed denied and the decision from
which the appeal was taken shall be deemed affirmed.  It shall be the duty of
the City Clerk to issue the decision.	5.	Extension of Time.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)  Any of the time limits specified in this section
may be extended by mutual consent of the subdivider and the Advisory Agency, the
Appeal Board or the City Council, as the case may be.	6.	Condominium and Stock
Cooperative Notice. (Amended by Ord. No. 154,960, Eff. 4/3/81.) The following
provisions shall apply only to cases where property is proposed for subdivision
into condominiums, stock cooperatives or community apartments, whether by new
construction or by conversion of an existing building. In such cases, notice to
tenants shall be given as provided herein. These provisions are in addition to
other notice provisions of the Municipal Code and shall apply to any subdivision
for which notice of the public hearings before the Advisory Agency has not been
sent by December 28, 1979. The Department of City Planning shall give notice of
any public hearings before the Advisory Agency on a Tentative Map or Preliminary
Parcel Map. Such notice shall be in writing and mailed not less than 15 days
prior to such public hearing to all names shown on a current list of tenants of
the property proposed for subdivision, which list shall be provided by the
subdivider and shall include the name and address of one tenant in each rental
unit on the property.	The subdivider shall give written notice of any
subdivision approval to at least one tenant in each rental unit on the property
within 30 days of such approval. The subdivider or record owner of the property
for which a subdivision application is pending or approved shall give notice of
such fact to any prospective tenant of the property before entering into any
written or oral rental agreement with such prospective tenant.	This subsection
may be enforced through Tentative Map or Preliminary Parcel Map condition or a
covenant running with the land and shall apply to all subdivisions for which an
application is filed on or after December 28, 1979.	B.	Map Requirement.
Tentative Maps filed with the City Planning Department shall be prepared by or
under the direction of a licensed surveyor or registered civil engineer. Such
maps shall clearly show all information required by this article, and shall be
drawn to an engineer’s scale of not less than one inch equals 200 feet.	The
Tentative Map shall contain all the following:	1.	The tract
number.	2.	Sufficient legal description of the property to define its
boundaries.	3.	Names, addresses and telephone numbers of the record owner,
subdivider, and person preparing the map.	4.	North point, engineering scale,
date and area.	5.	The widths and approximate locations of all existing and
proposed public easements or rights of way, or private street easements, within
and adjacent to the property involved.  (Amended by Ord. No. 176,321, Eff.
1/15/05.)	6.	Locations, widths and approximate grades of existing and proposed
highways, streets, alleys or ways, whether public or private within and adjacent
to the property involved.	7.	Existing street names, and names or designations
for all proposed streets and highways.	8.	Approximate radii of all center line
curves for streets, highways, alleys or ways.	9.	Lot layout, approximate
dimensions of each lot and number of each lot.	10.	The locations of potentially
dangerous areas, including geologically hazardous areas and areas subject to
inundation or flood hazard; the location, width and direction of flow of all
watercourses, flood control channels, and mud or debris paths where ravines or
swales will exist within and adjacent to the property involved; building
setbacks from such hazards, the proposed method of providing flood, erosion and
mud or debris control; and areas where access and emergency paths will be
located in the event flood design capacity is exceeded. Lot lines shall be
located so that the flow of watercourses and mud and debris paths, access and
emergency paths, and setbacks shall be adjacent to lot lines or in areas or
restrictions against construction. (Amended by Ord. No. 151,828, Eff.
2/16/79.)	11.	The existing contour of the land at intervals of not more than
five feet, and of not more than two–foot intervals if the slope of the land is
less than five per cent.	12.	The approximate location of all buildings or
structures on the property involved which are to be retained, notations
concerning all buildings which are to be removed, and approximate locations of
all existing wells.	13.	The approximate location and general description of any
large or historically significant trees and of any protected trees and an
indication as to the proposed retention or destruction of the trees.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 177,404, Eff. 4/23/06.)	14.	If any streets shown on the Tentative
Map are proposed to be private streets, they shall be clearly indicated. Such
streets shall conform to the requirements of Article 8 of this chapter or shall
have been previously approved in accordance with the then applicable provisions
of the said article. (Amended by Ord. No. 126,486, Eff. 3/1/64.)	15.	The
proposed method of providing sewage disposal and drainage for the
property.	16.	A statement regarding existing and proposed zoning.	C.	Protected
Tree Reports for Tentative Tract Maps.  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,404, Eff.
4/23/06.)  No application for a tentative tract map approval for a subdivision
where a protected tree is located shall be considered complete unless it
includes a report, in a form acceptable to the Advisory Agency and the City’s
Chief Forester, which pertains to preserving the tree and evaluates the
subdivider’s proposals for the preservation, removal, replacement or
relocation of the tree.  The report shall be prepared by a tree expert and
shall include all protected trees identified pursuant to Section 17.06 B.13. of
this Code.	In the event the subdivider proposes any grading, land movement, or
other activity within the drip line of a protected tree referred to in the
report, or proposes to relocate or remove any protected tree, the report shall
also evaluate any mitigation measures proposed by the subdivider and their
anticipated effectiveness in preserving the tree.
