                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

VESTING TENTATIVE MAPS. (§ 17.15)

  VESTING TENTATIVE MAPS.
	(Added by Ord. No. 163,300, Eff. 3/27/88.)	A.	Application. Whenever a provision
of the Subdivision Map Act, as implemented and supplemented by this article,
requires the filing of a tentative map, a vesting tentative map may instead be
filed, in accordance with the provisions hereof. If a subdivider does not seek
the rights conferred by this Section, the filing of a vesting tentative map
shall not be a prerequisite to any approval for any proposed subdivision, permit
for construction or work preparatory to construction.  (Amended by Ord. No.
163,944, Eff. 10/8/88.)	B.	Procedures.	1.	Filing and Processing.	(a)	A vesting
tentative map shall be filed on the same form and have the same contents,
accompanying data and reports and shall be processed in the same manner as set
forth in this article for a tentative map except as hereinafter provided. At the
time a vesting tentative map is filed, it shall have printed conspicuously on
its face the words “Vesting Tentative Map”. If it is known at the time of
filing that an additional approval (such as a variance or coastal development
permit) is necessary, the application for such additional approval shall be
filed prior to or simultaneously with the vesting tentative map.	(b)	At the time
a vesting tentative map is filed, a subdivider shall provide all information
required in connection with the filing of a tentative map by this Code,
including the information required by Section 17.06 B and C. Where the proposed
subdivision is in a designated Hillside area, the Advisory Agency shall require
the filing of a proposed grading plan pursuant to Section 17.05 L and may not
waive the requirement to file preliminary soils report pursuant to Section
17.05U.  A subdivider shall also indicate whether the proposed subdivision is
in the vicinity of the Mulholland Scenic Parkway and the dedication of land for
such purposes may be necessary. In addition, if design review of the proposed
subdivision is require by the applicable community or district plan or by a
specific plan, the subdivider shall provide the information necessary for such
review. The plan of building envelope shall be submitted, showing the height,
size, number of units and approximate location of buildings, driveways and any
proposed exterior garden walls.	2.	Expiration.  The approval or conditional
approval of a vesting tentative map shall expire at the end of the same time
period, and shall be subject to the same extensions established by Section 17.07
of this Code for the expiration an extension of the approval or conditional
approval of a tentative map.	C.	Development Rights.	1.	The approval or
conditional approval of a vesting tentative map shall confer a vested right to
proceed with development in substantial compliance with the ordinances, policies
and standards in effect on the date the application is deemed complete, and with
the conditions of approval imposed and specifically enumerated by the Advisory
Agency, including the submittal of a detailed grading plan under an approved
grading permit prior to recordation of the final map.  Such rights shall not
include exemptions from subsequent changes in the Building and Safety and Fire
regulations contained in Chapters V and IX of the Los Angeles Municipal Code and
policies and standards relating thereto	2.	Notwithstanding Subsection C 1 of
this section, a permit, approval, extension or entitlement may be conditioned or
denied if the Advisory Agency, or the City Planning Commission or the City
Council on appeal determines:	(a)	A failure to do so would place the occupants
of the subdivision or the immediate community, or both, in a condition dangerous
to their health or safety, or both; or (Amended by Ord. No. 163,944, Eff.
10/8/88.)	(b)	The condition or denial is required in order to comply with state
or federal law.	3.	The rights conferred by a map approved or conditionally
approved pursuant to this section shall expire if a final map is not recorded
prior to the expiration of the vesting tentative map as provided in Subsection B
2 of this section. If the final map is recorded, the rights conferred by this
section shall be for the following time periods:	(a)	An initial time period of
one year beyond the recording of the final map. Where several final maps are
recorded on various phases of a project covered by a single vesting tentative
map, this initial time period shall begin for each phase when the final map for
the phase is recorded	(b)	The initial time period set forth in Section C 3 (a)
above shall be automatically extended by any time used thereafter by the City
for processing a complete application for a grading permit or for design or
architectural review, if such time exceeds 30 days, from the date a complete
application for such permit or review is filed.	(c)	A subdivider may apply to
the Advisory Agency for a one-year extension at any time before expiration of
the initial time period set forth in Paragraph (a) of this subdivision. Denial
of the time extension may be appealed to the City Council within 15 days by the
subdivider.	(d)	If the subdivider submits a complete application for a building
permit during the periods of time specified in Subsections C 3(a)–(c) of this
section, the rights conferred by this section shall continue until the
expiration of that permit or any extension of that permit.	4.	(a)	Consistent
with Subsection C 1 of this section, an approved or conditionally approved
vesting tentative map shall not limit the City from imposing reasonable
conditions on subsequently required approvals or permits necessary for the
development and authorized by the ordinances, policies, and standards described
in Subsection C 1 of this section	(b)	If the ordinances, policies, or standards
described in this Subsection C 1 of this section are changed subsequent to the
approval or conditional approval of a vesting tentative map, the subdivider, or
his or her assignee, at any time prior to the expiration of the vesting
tentative map, may apply for an amendment to the vesting tentative map to secure
a vested right to proceed with the changed ordinances, policies, or standards.
An application shall clearly specify the changed ordinances, policies, or
standards for which the amendment is sought. In addition, such application shall
conform to the provisions relating to modifications of tentative maps set forth
in Section 17.11 of this Code.	D.	Development Inconsistent With Zoning –
Conditional Approval.	1.	Whenever a subdivider files a vesting tentative map for
a subdivision whose intended development is inconsistent with the zoning
ordinance in existence at that time, that inconsistency shall be noted on the
map. The City may deny such a vesting tentative map or approve it conditioned on
the subdivider, or his or her designee, obtaining the necessary change in the
zoning ordinance to eliminate the inconsistency. If the change in the zoning
ordinance is obtained, the approved or conditionally approved vesting tentative
map shall confer the vested right to proceed with the development,
notwithstanding Subsection C 1 of this section, in substantial compliance with
the change in the zoning ordinance and the map, as approved,	2.	The rights
conferred by this subsection shall be for the time periods set forth in
Subsections C 3(a) – (d) of this section.
