                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

MODIFICATION OF RECORDED FINAL MAPS. (§ 17.14)

  MODIFICATION OF RECORDED FINAL MAPS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 157,533, Eff. 5/12/83.)	A.	In addition to amendments to
final maps authorized by Government Code Section 66469, after a final map is
filed with the Office of the County Recorder, such recorded map, including the
conditions of approval thereof, may be modified pursuant to the provisions of
this Section. The provisions of this Section are not applicable to certificates
of correction or amending maps filed pursuant to Government Code Section
66469.	B.	Applications for certificates of correction or amending maps filed
pursuant to this section may be filed with the Advisory Agency.  The filing and
processing of such applications, including appeals, shall conform to the
provisions of Section 17.11 of this Code relating to the filing and processing
of modifications of tentative maps.  In addition to such requirements, a public
hearing shall be held by the Advisory Agency and 10 days notice thereof shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation and mailed to the applicant and
to the owners of all property located within 500 feet of the subdivision (as
shown on records of the City Engineer and on the records of the County Assessor
for property located outside of the City of Los Angeles).  Written notice shall
also be mailed to residential, commercial and industrial occupants of all
property, within 500 feet of the exterior boundaries of the property involved. 
This requirement can be met by mailing such notice to “occupant”.  This
notice shall also conform to the requirements of Government Code Section
66451.3.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,595, Eff. 4/10/11.)	Notice of the public
hearing shall be posted, by the applicant, in a conspicuous place on the
property involved at least ten days prior to the date of the public hearing.
(Added by Ord. No. 164,845, Eff. 6/17/89.)	C.	Consideration of and action on
such applications shall be limited to the proposed modifications.	D.	No such
modification or amending map may be approved unless the Advisory Agency, or the
City Planning Commission or City Council on appeal finds each of the
following:	1.	That there are changes in circumstances which make any or all of
the conditions of such map no longer appropriate or necessary;	2.	That the
modifications do not impose any additional burden on the present fee owner of
the property;	3.	That the modifications do not alter any right, title or
interest in the real property reflected on the recorded map;	4.	That the map and
conditions as modified conform to the provisions of Government Code Section
66474 and of this Code;	5.	That the decision–maker has given consideration,
among other factors, to the effects of the modifications on surrounding
properties.	E.	(Added by Ord. No. 163,641, Eff. 7/1/88.) Modifications and
amending maps shall be governed by the following limitations.	1.	No
modifications involving increases in density shall be allowed which would change
the density of a subdivision as approved on appeal by the City Planning
Commission or the City Council, where such density was the subject of the appeal
to the City Planning Commission or the City Council.	2.	No condition may be
modified if it was imposed as a mitigating measure identified in a mitigated or
conditional negative declaration or in an Environmental Impact
Report.	3.	Modifications involving increases in density over that originally
approved by the Advisory Agency in approving the tentative map shall be limited
as follows:	(a)	For subdivision of fewer than 10 lots or dwelling units, any
density increase shall be limited to one lot or dwelling unit; and	(b)	For
subdivisions containing 10 or more lot or dwelling units, any increase shall be
limited to not more than 10 percent of that originally
approved.	4.	Modifications involving either increase in the height of
structures, or in the elevation of building pads where the elevation of such
pads has been specified by the Advisory Agency, shall be limited as
follows:	(a)	an increase in the height of structures of not more than 10 percent
above the approved height of such structures; or	(b)	an increase in the
elevation of building pads of not more than 5 feet above the approved elevation
of such pads.	Any such increase in height or elevation shall not obstruct the
view from surrounding properties. A greater increase in the elevation of
building pads may be approved if such increase has been determined to be
necessary for health and safety reasons by the Department of Building an
Safety.	5.	No modifications shall be permitted which violate the intent of any
of the original conditions of the tract map approval as that intent is expressed
in the findings or otherwise by the decision maker.	F.	An amending map or
certificate of correction shall be recorded with the Office of the County
Recorder in the manner specified in Government Code Section 66472. If the
modification of one or more conditions does not require an amending map or
certificate of correction, the approval of the modification shall be evidenced
in a letter mailed to the subdivider and made a part of the subject tract file.
(Former Subsection. E Redesignated F by Ord. No. 163,641, Eff. 7/1/88.)
