                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PARK AND RECREATION SITE ACQUISITION AND DEVELOPMENT PROVISIONS. (§ 17.12)

  PARK AND RECREATION SITE ACQUISITION AND DEVELOPMENT PROVISIONS.
	(Added by Ord. No. 141,422, Eff. 2/11/71.)	A.	Dedication of Land or Payment of
Fee.	1.	No final subdivision map shall be approved nor shall it be recorded
unless in connection therewith land within the subdivision has been dedicated to
the City of Los Angeles for park or recreational purposes as may be determined
by the Advisory Agency in accordance with the standards and in the manner set
forth or a fee in lieu thereof has been paid or guaranteed to be paid within one
year after Council approves the final map, or a combination of dedication and
payment or guarantee of fees has occurred. The guarantee of payment of fees is
to be to the satisfaction of the Department of Recreation and Parks and is to be
by a deposit with the Department of Recreation and Parks of an irrevocable
deposit instrument issued by a bank, savings and loan association or other
depository whose deposits are insured by an instrumentality of the federal
government. The deposit must be fully insured by such instrumentality. The
deposit instrument must be in a form that permits collection by the City of Los
Angeles at maturity without further consent of any other party. (Amended by Ord.
No. 156,916, Eff. 8/7/72.)	2.	In the event the final map approval does not occur
within six months after receipt of a “guarantee” of payment, the amount of
the fee shall be recalculated. The recalculated fee shall be determined using
the fee schedule in effect six months prior to anticipated approval. The
additional fee, if any, shall be paid or guaranteed in accordance with paragraph
1 of this subsection before the map is submitted to the City Council for
approval. (Amended by Ord. No. 155,458, Eff. 6/22/81.)	B.	Land to be Dedicated.
The area of land within a subdivision required to be dedicated for park and
recreation purposes shall be established in accordance with the following,
table:
  
    
      
        Net Density at Which Land May or Will be Developed
      
      
        Percentage of Gross Subdivision Area Required to be Dedicated for Park
and Recreation Purposes
      
    
    
      
        1 dwelling unit/acre or more
      
      
        .9
      
    
    
      
        1 dwelling unit/.5 acre to less than 1 acre.
      
      
        1.2
      
    
    
      
        l dwelling unit/10,000 sq. ft to less than .5 acre
      
      
        2.3
      
    
    
      
        1 dwelling unit/9,000 sq. ft to less than 10,000 sq ft.
      
      
        3.9
      
    
    
      
        1 dwelling unit/8,000 sq. ft. to less than 9,000 sq. ft.
      
      
        4.2
      
    
    
      
        1 dwelling unit/7000 sq. ft. to less than 8,000 sq/ ft.
      
      
        4.7
      
    
    
      
        1 dwelling unit/6,000 sq. ft. to less than 7,000 sq. ft.
      
      
        5.4
      
    
    
      
        l dwelling unit/4,355 sq. ft. to less than 6,000 sq. ft.
      
      
        6.2
      
    
    
      
        10 dwelling unit/acre to less than 20 dwelling unit/acre
      
      
        7.8
      
    
    
      
        20 dwelling unit/acre to less than 30 dwelling unit/acre
      
      
        12.2
      
    
    
      
        30 dwelling unit/acre to less than 40 dwelling unit/acre
      
      
        15.9
      
    
    
      
        40 dwelling unit/acre to less than 50 dwelling unit/acre
      
      
        19.2
      
    
    
      
        50 dwelling unit/acre to less than 60 dwelling unit/acre
      
      
        22.1
      
    
    
      
        60 dwelling unit/acre to less than 70 dwelling unit/acre
      
      
        24.7
      
    
    
      
        70 dwelling unit/acre to less than 80 dwelling unit/acre
      
      
        27.1
      
    
    
      
        80 dwelling unit/acre to less than 90 dwelling unit/acre
      
      
        29.2
      
    
    
      
        90 dwelling unit/acre to less than 100 dwelling unit/acre
      
      
        31.1
      
    
    
      
        100 dwelling unit/acre or less
      
      
        32.0
      
    
  
	C.	Application of Table. The Advisory Agency shall require the subdivider to
dedicate land in accordance with the table set forth in Subsection B of this
section, based upon the maximum density permitted within the land to be
subdivided is located.	EXCEPTION:  Where a subdivider proposes to develop land
at less than the maximum density permitted for the zone, and has executed and
recorded in the office of the County Recorder a covenant running with the land,
binding upon all future owners thereof, that such land shall not be developed in
such a manner as to create a higher density than that proposed, the Advisory
Agency shall base the required dedication upon the proposed density. Any
covenant executed in accordance with this exception shall be approved by the
Advisory Agency prior to recordation.	D.	Fee to be Paid. (Amended by Ord. No.
176,616, Eff. 6/6/05.)  The Advisory Agency may require the payment to the City
of a fee for each dwelling unit permitted to be constructed in the subdivision
in lieu of the dedication of all or a portion of all of the land otherwise
required pursuant to Subsection C. above.	The fees shall be automatically
revised each March 1 to reflect the indexing provided under Subsection H. of
this section.  The fee shall be paid to the Department of Recreation and Parks
and shall be deposited and held in appropriate trust accounts in the Recreation
and Parks fund and may be expended therefrom by the Board of Recreation and Park
Commissioners only for the acquisition and development of park and recreational
sites and facilities in conformity with the limitations upon use hereinafter set
forth.	E.	Use of Lands or Fees Acquired Pursuant to This Section. The lands
required to be dedicated and the fees required to be paid pursuant to this
section in connection with a particular subdivision may be used only for the
purpose of providing park or recreational sites and facilities which will serve
such subdivision and the future residents therein. Such sites and facilities
shall comply with the principles and standards set forth in the recreational
element of the general plan heretofore approved and adopted by the City Council,
and the location of land to be dedicated shall bear a reasonable relationship to
the use of the proposed park and recreational facilities by the future
inhabitants of the subdivision.	The development of park or recreational
facilities with funds acquired pursuant to this section will begin as
follows:	1.	Where the city already possesses park or recreational lands so
located that the facilities thereon may be reasonably used by the present or
future inhabitants of one or more subdivisions which have paid or will pay in
lieu fees pursuant to this section, then the development of the park or
recreational facilities thereon shall take place at such time as the fees so
paid by such subdivisions are sufficient to accomplish the next phase or project
of the development, unless funds from other sources become available for the
earlier development thereof.	2.	Where the city has not yet acquired park or
recreational lands so located that the facilities thereon may be reasonably used
by the present or future inhabitants of one or more subdivisions which have paid
or will pay in lieu fees pursuant to this section, the fees so paid by such
subdivisions shall first be used to acquire such land as funds become sufficient
and thereafter shall be used for the development of park or recreational
facilities on such land, commencing at such time as the fees paid by such
subdivisions are sufficient to accomplish a phase or project of the development,
unless funds from other sources become available for the earlier development
thereof.	If the development of park or recreational facilities so located as to
serve a particular subdivision has already commenced, or if the actual time
thereof is known, the subdivider shall be advised of such fact when the final
map is approved for recordation.	F.	Exemptions and Credits. (Amended by Ord. No.
155,458, Eff. 6/22/81.)	1.	Where private facilities for park and recreational
purposes are provided in a proposed subdivision and such facilities are to be
privately owned and maintained by the future residents of the subdivision, the
areas occupied by such facilities shall be credited against the requirement of
dedication of land for park and recreational purposes of the payment of fees in
lieu thereof, provided the Advisory Agency finds it is in the public interest to
do so and that the following standards are met: (1) that each facility is
available for use by all the residents of the subdivision and (2) that the area
and the facilities satisfy the recreation and park needs of the subdivision so
as to reduce the need for public recreation and park facilities to serve the
subdivision residents.	a.	Credits	(1)	Credits shall be calculated as
follows:	(a)	High intensity development recreational areas shall be granted
credit at $5.00 per square foot.	(b)	Low intensity development recreational
areas shall be granted credit at $2.50 per square foot.	(2)	High intensity
development recreational areas are defined as:	(a)	Swimming pools and spas (when
the spas are an integral part of a pool complex), including not more than 10
feet of the width of the pool and spa deck and also including those pool and spa
areas that are covered or enclosed.	(b)	Tennis, paddle tennis, shuffle board,
and volleyball and one–half or full basketball courts which are in substantial
conformity with standards of the Department of Recreation and Parks for such
facilities.	(c)	Child’s play areas with playground equipment where said areas
and equipment are of a type and quality comparable to those in public parks of
the City of Los Angeles.	(3)	Low intensity development recreational areas are
defined as:	(a)	Putting green.	(b)	Landscaped open area as may be determined by
the Advisory Agency.	(c)	Athletic fields such as baseball and soccer fields,
equestrian areas and picnic grounds.	(4)	Credit shall be granted, dollar for
dollar, for any recreational and park fees paid for the property pursuant to
this section or Section 12.33 of this Code within the preceding five years. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 163,797, Eff. 8/8/88.)	(5)	Neither high intensity or low
intensity development recreational areas located between the front lot line and
the main building shall be credited; neither shall high intensity nor low
intensity recreational areas within required side yards or required rear yards
be credited.	(6)	Rooftop facilities. Those high intensity development
recreational areas which require building permits and which are located on
rooftops may be credited.	(7)	The amount of low intensity credits shall not
exceed the amount of high intensity credits and the high intensity credits shall
not exceed 50 percent of the calculated fee.	The purpose of providing credits
over and above 50 percent of the calculated fee shall be to encourage the
providing of recreational facilities which preserve large quantities of open
space when such open space is provided in addition to high intensity recreation
facilities.	The maximum amount of credit shall not exceed 100 percent of the
calculated fee.	b.	The granting of credits shall also be subject to the
following conditions:	(1)	The private ownership and maintenance of the
facilities shall be adequately provided for by written agreements; and	(2)	The
use of the private facilities is restricted for park and recreational purposes
by recorded covenants which run with the land in favor of the future owners of
property within the tract and which cannot be defeated or eliminated without the
consent of the City Council; and	(3)	The proposed private facilities are
reasonably adaptable for use for park and recreational purposes, taking into
consideration such factors as size, shape, topography, geology, access and
location of the private open space land; and	(4)	The facilities are in
substantial accordance with the Public Recreation Plan portion of the Service
Systems Element of the General Plan.	c.	When the subdivider proposes to provide
private facilities for park and recreational purposes within the proposed
subdivision, but does not know the exact location thereof at the time the
Tentative Map is submitted, the Advisory Agency may allow credit as provided
herein upon the condition that the necessary covenants be approved and recorded
prior to the approval of the Final Map.	2.	Where prior to filing a tentative map
or maps, land has been dedicated for park and recreational purposes pursuant to
this section to serve the future inhabitants of the proposed subdivision and the
ordinance accepting the land so dedicated contains a provision that such land
shall be credited as herein provided, the Advisory Agency shall reduce or
eliminate the amount of land required to be dedicated for park and recreational
purposes within the subdivision or subdivisions, or the fees required to be paid
in lieu thereof, to the extent that land has previously been dedicated for the
benefit of the proposed subdivision or subdivisions under consideration.	3.	The
dedication of land or the payment of a fee in lieu thereof for park and
recreational purposes shall not be required by the Advisory Agency in those
instances where the Advisory Agency determines, after receiving a report thereon
from the Director of the Department of Recreation and Parks that there is no
reasonable probability within the foreseeable future that lands for parks and
recreational purposes will be acquired which will be reasonably usable by the
inhabitants of such subdivision and that the city does not presently possess
such lands.	4.	No land shall be required to be dedicated and no fees shall be
required to be paid for any commercially zoned property if the
owner–subdivider thereof executes and records in the office of the County
Recorder a covenant running with the land binding upon all future owners of the
property that said property will never be developed for residential uses unless
the required dedication of land for park and recreational purposes or the
payment of fees in lieu thereof has been made, said covenant to be approved by
the Advisory Agency.	5.	The dedication of land or the payment of a fee in lieu
thereof for park and recreational purposes shall not be required for land which
is so zoned that no residential uses are permitted thereon.	6.	In subdivisions
containing 50 lots or less only the payment of fees may be required.	7.	A credit
shall be allowed whenever a dwelling unit construction tax previously has been
paid pursuant to Article 1.10 of Chapter II of this Code for dwelling units
constructed on land for which a fee is required to be paid in accordance with
the provisions of this section. Said credit shall be equal to the amount of the
tax previously paid but shall not exceed the amount of any fee required to be
paid under the provisions of this section.	8.	In lieu of the dedication of land
within a subdivision for park and recreational purposes or the payment of a fee
as a substitute therefor as provided in Subsection A hereof, the Advisory Agency
with the approval of the Board of Recreation and Parks Commissioners may permit
land to be dedicated for park or recreational purposes outside of such
subdivision or improvements to be made to an existing city park or upon land
being dedicated as a city park or recreational facility to be installed or
constructed therein, or any combination of the foregoing, or may permit any of
the foregoing to be guaranteed as provided in Section 17.08 G, if it is found
that the land to be dedicated, the improvements to be made or the facilities to
be installed or constructed are so located as to bear a reasonable relationship
to the use thereof by the future inhabitants of the subdivision. Such dedication
of land or providing of improvements or facilities may only be used as a credit
against the otherwise required dedication or fee to the extent of the value of
such land, improvements or facilities determined as set forth below.	The value
of land outside the subdivision shall be equal to or greater than the value of
the land which would have been dedicated pursuant to the schedule in Subsection
B and equal to or more than the fee which would be paid pursuant to Subsection
D.	The value of the improvements or of the facilities referred to in this
section shall be (a) an amount determined by the Advisory Agency to be the
reasonable value of such improvements or recreational facilities after first
considering a report and recommendation from the Board of Recreation and Parks
Commissioners relative thereto, or (b) an amount agreed upon by the City Council
and the party proposing to provide such improvements or recreational facilities
to be the reasonable value thereof after first considering a report and
recommendation from the Board of Recreation and Park Commissioners relative
thereto.	9.	(Amended in Entirety by Ord. No. 160,503, Eff. 12/22/85.) The
dedication of land or the payment of a fee in lieu thereof for park and
recreational purposes shall be deferred as hereinafter provided where the
subdivision is for residential use if: (1) the project is financed in whole or
in part by federal funds and owned and operated by an entity qualified as an
exempt organization under Section 501(c)(3) of the United States Internal
Revenue Code of 1954, provided that the project is to be occupied entirely by
low or moderate income households, as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code or
housing to be occupied by persons over the age of 62 or persons who are
handicapped, as said latter term is defined in Section 50072 of the California
Health and Safety Code; or (2) (a) the project is a rental project in which not
less than twenty percent (20%) of the units shall be for low or moderate income
households as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code, (b) where a contract has
been made with the Community Development Department of the City of Los Angeles
that the units designated for low or moderate income households will be
available for rental until such time as land has been dedicated or a fee in lieu
thereof paid for park and recreational purposes but in any event for a period of
not less than 10 years from the date of issuance of certificate of occupancy,
and (c) where the project is financed in whole or in part by bonds or other
securities issued by the City of Los Angeles.	Where a subdivision qualified for
deferral under alternative (1) above, such deferral shall terminate upon the
sale or exchange of the project to any person other than to another such exempt
organization which will continue to use the project in the same manner. Where a
subdivision qualifies for deferral under alternative (2) above, such deferral
shall terminate when the units designated for low or moderate income households
are no longer available therefor or when the project is re-subdivided for a
residential conversion project as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code. Upon
termination of deferment, the dedication of land or payment of a fee in lieu
thereof shall be in accord with the applicable provisions of law or applicable
regulations in effect at the time of such termination.	At the time of applying
for such deferment, the owner and any other person having an interest in the
project shall execute and record a covenant, in a form designed to run with the
land, agreeing to comply with the above provisions, and further agreeing that
any statutory or other provision which grants exemption from dedication of land
or payment of fee in lieu thereof because a building has been in existence for a
specific period of time shall not be applicable.	The deferment of the dedication
of land or the payment of fee in lieu thereof permitted by this subdivision
shall not be construed as applying to the dwelling unit construction tax
(Article 1.10 of Chapter 2 of this Code commencing with Section 21.10.1). Unless
a project is exempted pursuant to such article, such dwelling unit construction
tax shall be payable.	G.	When Effective. The provisions of this section shall
not be applicable to any subdivision, the Tentative Map of which is filed prior
to the thirty–first day following the effective day hereof. (Relettered by
Ord. No. 144,321, Eff. 3/2/73.)	H.	Indexing. (Amended by Ord. No. 176,616, Eff.
6/6/05.)  In order that the fees levied pursuant to this section keep pace with
the cost of land, the fees shall be periodically increased (or decreased) as
follows:	The fee shall be increased (or decreased) as of March 1 of each year by
the amount of the percent of increase (or decrease) in value of existing
single-family dwellings to October of the preceding year over the prior year as
determined by the Real Estate Research Council of Southern California.  To
reflect this revised fee, a new fee table shall be published by the Advisory
Agency before March 1 of each year and this table shall automatically supersede
the table published the previous year.	I.	When Effective. Any recreation and
parks fees not paid and receipted by the Department of Recreation and Parks as
of the effective date of this ordinance shall be recalculated pursuant to the
provisions of this ordinance. (Added by Ord. No. 155,458, Eff.
6/22/81.)	J.	Multiple Zoned Properties and Zone Changes. Where there is a
question as to which zone is applicable in the calculation of the recreation and
parks fee, the Advisory Agency shall determine the fee payment based on the
proper density. (Added by Ord. No. 155,458, Eff. 6/22/81.)
