                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

FILING OF PRELIMINARY PARCEL MAPS. (§ 17.51)

  FILING OF PRELIMINARY PARCEL MAPS.	A.	FORMS AND CONTENTS. (Amended by Ord.
No. 133,753, Eff. 2/12/67.)  Each person applying for approval of a parcel map
required by reason of Section 17.50 B. of this Code shall submit a reproducible
preliminary Parcel Map to the City Planning Department showing the land to be
divided and its proposed division. The map may be prepared by the applicant,
except that the Advisory Agency may require the map to be prepared by a licensed
land surveyor or registered civil engineer and that it be based upon a field
survey when it determines that such is necessary to provide the information
required by this section. The map shall be made on one or more sheets of tracing
paper or cloth at least 8 1/2 inches by 11 inches but shall not exceed 18 × 26
inches. It shall be legibly drawn using a decimal or an engineer’s scale and
shall clearly show the following information:	1.	The dimensions and record
boundaries of the total parcel together with a legal description of the total
parcel attached to the map.	2.	The dimensions and boundaries of each proposed
parcel.	3.	The names, addresses and telephone number of the property owners, the
person filing the map, and the registered civil engineer or licensed land
surveyor, if any, who prepared the map.	4.	The abutting streets and alleys and
existing surface improvements and proposed dedications and improvements.	5.	The
location of other existing public easements and/or private street easements.
(Amended by Ord. No. 176,321, Eff. 1/15/05.)	6.	In Hillside Areas, the existing
contours of the land at intervals of not more than five feet. (Amended by Ord.
No. 143,254, Eff. 5/14/72.)	7.	The accurate location of any structures on the
property (Added by Ord. No. 143,254, Eff. 5/14/72.)	8.	Names or designations for
all proposed streets. (Added by Ord. No. 158,691, Eff. 3/12/84.)	9.	Such other
information as the Advisory Agency determines is necessary to properly consider
the proposed division. (Redesignated 9, Ord. No. 158,691, Eff.
3/12/84.)	B.	Incomplete Map. If at  any time during the processing of the map
it is discovered that the map has been improperly prepared or required pertinent
information has not been submitted, the applicant shall be promptly notified in
writing by mail of the defect and of further information or correction required
The time limits specified hereinafter shall not begin until the omitted or
inaccurate information is furnished in a proper manner. (Amended by Ord. No.
130,871, Eff. 9/20/65 )	C.	Additional Reports. (Added by Ord. No. 143,254, Eff.
5/14/72.) In addition to the preliminary Parcel Map, and when determined by the
Superintendent of Building or the City Engineer to be necessary, the following
reports shall be submitted to the City Planning Department by the applicant when
the property is located in a Hillside Area, as defined in Article 1 of Chapter 9
of this Code	1.	A geologic report prepared by an engineering geologist, as
defined in Article 1 of Chapter 9 of this Code, setting forth all relevant
geologic data pertaining to the proposed separate parcels and including
separately stated conclusions listing any potential hazards to public health,
safety or welfare which may exist on the proposed parcels or which could result
from grading or building upon the proposed separate parcels	2.	A report prepared
by a soils engineer, as defined in Article 1 of Chapter 9 of this Code, setting
forth sufficient engineering data to explain the proposed solutions to:	(a)	Any
potential geologic hazards disclosed by the geologic report; and	(b)	Any
potential geologic hazards that could be created by the proposed
grading.	D.	Protected Tree Reports for Parcel Maps.  No application for a
preliminary parcel map approval for a parcel where a protected tree is located
shall be considered complete unless it includes a report pertaining to
preserving the tree.  The report shall be prepared by a tree expert and shall
evaluate the subdivider’s proposals for protected tree preservation, removal,
replacement and/or relocation.  In the event the subdivider proposes any
grading, land movement, or other activity within the drip line of any protected
tree referred to in the report, or proposes to relocate or remove any tree, the
report shall also evaluate any mitigation measures proposed by the subdivider
and the anticipated effectiveness in preserving the tree.  (Amended by Ord. No.
177,404, Eff. 4/23/06.)
