                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PARCEL MAP. (§ 17.56)

  PARCEL MAP.	A.	Time Limit.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,106, Eff. 5/20/12.) 
The following provisions establish the term of preliminary approvals and
Tentative Map approvals under Section 17.50 C. of this Code:	1.	Within 36 months
after the approval or conditional approval of the preliminary Parcel Map or
approval of a Tentative Map filed pursuant to the requirements of Section 17.50
C. of this Code,  a final Parcel Map showing each new parcel shall be prepared
and filed with the City Engineer and submitted by the City Engineer to the City
Council.  The failure of a person dividing land to file the map with the City
Engineer within that period and to have the map corrected and presented by the
City Engineer to the City Clerk within the specified time limit shall
automatically terminate and void the proceedings unless the time is extended by
the Advisory Agency or the Appeal Board, upon the appeal from a denial of the
extension by the Advisory Agency.	2.	The time limit for the submittal of a
corrected Parcel Map to the City Council may be extended for a period or periods
not exceeding a total of 72 months including the initial term.	The provisions of
this subsection shall apply to those maps described above and shall also apply
to those maps that were approved or conditionally approved prior to the
effective date of this subsection and that have not terminated prior to that
date.	EXCEPTION.  The term of a preliminary Parcel Map approval or Tentative
Map approval under Section 17.50 C. of this Code shall be automatically extended
pursuant to the provisions of California Governmental Code Sections 66452.21,
66452.22, and 66452.23, and any other current or future provision of the
Subdivision Map Act that operates to extend the term of such
approvals.	B.	Procedure. (Amended by Ord. No. 157,811, Eff. 8/13/83.) A final
parcel map shall be prepared and filed with the City Engineer in compliance with
the provisions of this article. Said map shall conform substantially to the
approved preliminary parcel map, or the approved tentative map which was filed
pursuant to the requirements contained in Section 17.50 of this Code. The final
parcel map shall be accepted by the City Council provided that:	1.	The necessary
improvements and grading or retaining structure construction, as set forth in
the approval of the preliminary parcel map, have been installed and approved by
the City, or provided the subdivider executes an Improvement Agreement and
submits or agrees to submit:	a.	Improvement plans; and	b.	Satisfactory grading
or construction plans, where grading or construction of an engineered retaining
structure is required in Hillside Areas; and	c.	Improvement Securities, warranty
guarantees, and labor and material payment securities in accordance with
provisions of Section 17.08 G. of this Code	2.	All approvals have been obtained
from City departments and other public agencies; and	3.	Any special assessment
or bond required to be paid or guaranteed pursuant to Section 66493(c) of the
Subdivision Map Act has been paid in full, or such payment has been
guaranteed.	C.	Final Parcel Map Requirements. (Title Amended by Ord. No.
157,811, Eff. 8/31/83.)	1.	The following information shall be submitted with the
Parcel Map: names, address and telephone number of the record owners, and person
preparing the Parcel Map. The general form and layout of the map, including size
and type of lettering, drafting and location of acknowledgment, etc., shall be
determined by the City Engineer. The map shall be prepared on high quality
tracing cloth or other material approved by the City Engineer.	1.5	The map shall
show the location of each parcel and its relation to surrounding surveys. The
location of any remainder of the original parcel shall be shown, but need not be
shown as a matter of survey but only by reference to the existing record
boundaries of such remainder if such remainder has a gross area of five acres or
more. (Added by Ord. No. 133,753, Eff. 4/11/75.)	2.	(Amended by  No. 146,985,
Eff. 4/11/75.) Each sheet of said Parcel Map shall be 18 × 26 inches. A
marginal line shall be drawn around each sheet, leaving a blank margin of one
inch. The scale of the map shall be such as to show all details clearly. Each
sheet shall be numbered, and its relation to other sheets clearly shown. The
Parcel Map number, scale and north point shall be shown on each sheet. If more
than three sheets are necessary to show the entire division of land, an index
map shall be included on one of the sheets.	The exterior boundary of the land
included within the subdivision shall be indicated by distinctive symbols and
clearly so designated. Each parcel shall be identified by a letter.	3.	Where the
division of land creates four or less parcels, the Parcel Map may be compiled
from recorded or filed data when sufficient survey information exists on filed
maps to locate and retrace the exterior boundary lines of the parcel map if the
location of at least one of these boundary lines can be established from an
existing monumented line. (Amended by Ord. No. 146,985, Eff. 4/11/75. )	4.	All
other Parcel Maps shall be based upon a field survey made in conformance with
the Land Surveyor’s Act.	5.	The Parcel Map shall be prepared by a registered
civil engineer or licensed land surveyor. A signed Surveyor’s Certificate as
required by the Subdivision Map Act shall appear on the Parcel Map.	5.5	Where
there are no dedications being made by the Parcel Map, a certificate signed and
acknowledged by the fee owners only, of the real property being subdivided,
consenting to the preparation and recordation of the parcel map, shall be
required. (Added by Ord. No. 148,598, Eff. 8/25/76.)	6.	Within 20 days after
receiving the Parcel Map, the City Engineer shall examine it for the survey
information shown thereon, and if he is satisfied that it is technically
correct, he shall certify the map in accordance with the provisions of the
Subdivision Map Act.	7.	Each approved Parcel Map recorded with the County
Recorder shall contain the following statement; “The approval of this Parcel
Map shall not be construed as having been based upon geological investigation
such as will authorize the issuance of building permits on the subject property.
Such permits will be issued only at such time as the Department of Building and
Safety has received such topographic maps and geological reports as it deems
necessary to justify the issuance of such building permits.” (Added by Ord.
No. 143,254, Eff. 5/14/72.)
