                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PARCEL MAP. (§ 17.53)

  APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PARCEL MAP.	A.	Processing.	1.	(Amended by Ord. No.
143,254, Eff. 5/14/72.) Upon receipt and acceptance of a properly prepared map,
together with sufficient copies for appropriate City agencies, the Planning
Department shall immediately forward copies to the City Engineer and, if in a
Hillside Area, the Superintendent of Building for a report and recommendation.
The City Engineer and the Superintendent of Building shall make their reports
within twenty–one days after the map is transmitted to them unless a geologic
and soils engineering report is required as specified in Section 17.51-C of this
Code, in which case they shall make their reports within thirty–five days
after the subject geologic and soils report is received. The Advisory Agency
shall not take final action on any preliminary Parcel Map until first having
received a report thereon from the City Engineer and if in a Hillside Area, the
Superintendent of Building, or until the expiration of the applicable
period.	2.	A copy of the preliminary Parcel Map shall be forwarded to the Chief
Engineer of the Fire Department for report and recommendation to the Advisory
Agency. The Chief Engineer shall make his report within seven days after the map
is transmitted to him. Said report shall indicate whether the designated areas
in which buildings are to be erected on each proposed parcel or lot, as shown on
said map are less than 1,000 feet from a Los Angeles City Fire Department fire
hydrant, said distance to be measured along a route providing reasonable access
for the laying of fire hoses in an emergency, or whether adequate alternative
fire protection exists or is in the process of being provided for said parcel or
lots. (Amended by Ord. No. 143,254, Eff. 5/14/72.)	B.	Approval. When Advisory
Agency determines that the proposed Parcel Map complies with all the provisions
of these parcel map regulations, and no dedication or improvement is required,
it shall approve the map.	C.	Conditional Approval. When the Advisory Agency
determines that the preliminary Parcel Map complies with all of the provisions
of these parcel map regulations, but that street or alley dedications or
improvements, storm drain easements, sanitary sewer easements or slope easements
are necessary, or that grading or construction of an engineered retaining
structure as specified in this section is necessary. It may approve the proposed
preliminary Parcel Map subject to the following conditions being complied with
to the satisfaction of the City Engineer: (Amended by Ord. No. 143,254, Eff.
5/14/72.)	1.	That an offer be made to dedicate such land as is necessary for
street or alley purposes in compliance with the applicable street and alley
design standards established in Section 17.05 of this Code and such storm drain
easements, sanitary sewer easements and slope easements as are deemed necessary.
The offer shall be properly executed by all parties having a record interest
therein including beneficiaries under deeds of trust as shown by a current
preliminary title report prepared by a title company approved by the City
Engineer for that purpose. The trustee under said deed of trust shall not be
required to execute the dedicatory instrument, unless, in the view of the City
Engineer, such execution is necessary to satisfactorily dedicate the land. This
report shall be on a form approved by the City Attorney and the City Engineer;
be in such terms as to be binding on the owner, his heirs, assigns or successors
in interest; and shall continue until the City Council accepts or rejects it.
The offer shall provide that the dedication will be complete upon acceptance by
the City Council. The City Engineer or a designated deputy shall approve or
disapprove the offer for recordation within ten days after it is filed with the
City Engineer. The offer shall be recorded by the City Engineer in the Office of
the County Recorder upon its approval by the City Engineer or said deputy. If
the streets, alleys and easements being offered for dedication are required for
immediate public use as streets, alleys and easements, a resolution of
acceptance shall thereafter be submitted to the City Council concurrently with
the final Parcel Map in order to complete the dedication. Offers to dedicate
which are not required for immediate public use will be retained by the City
until such time as acceptance for public use occurs. If an offer is rejected by
the City Council, the City Engineer shall issue a release from such offer which
shall be recorded in the office of the County Recorder. (Amended by Ord. No.
152,425, Eff. 6/29/79, Oper. 7/1/79.)	(a)	When it is determined that additional
street dedication for widening will be required from property adjoining that
depicted in the preliminary Parcel Map in order to comply with the applicable
street standards provided for in Section 17.05 of this Chapter, the offer of
dedication provided for hereinabove shall include an agreement as a covenant
running with the land that upon completion of the dedication, a one–foot wide
portion of the property included within the dedication and abutting such
adjoining property shall not be used for access thereto. This agreement shall be
in the form of a covenant running with the land and shall be recorded, but shall
by its own terms become null and void upon the completion of the dedication of
the additional land needed for street purposes from the adjoining property. The
City Engineer shall show that portion of the dedication which is subject to the
recorded covenant on the District Maps of the City of Los Angeles. As long as
said agreement remains in effect, the aforesaid one–foot strip shall not be
used as a means of access to said adjoining property, nor shall any permits be
issued by any City Department permitting its use for access purposes. (Amended
by Ord. No. 130,871, Eff. 9/20/65.)	(b)	(None)	2.	That such improvements as are
required be constructed and installed to the satisfaction of the City Engineer
or that construction and installation of such improvements be guaranteed in
accordance with the provisions of Section 17.08 G. of the Code. Said
improvements shall be limited to grading and the installation of local drainage
and sewer facilities, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, street lights, street trees and
roadway surfacing. In addition, the City Engineer may also require such other
incidental improvements as are essential to the proper installation of the
required public street or alley improvements. All such improvements shall be
graded and improved in accordance with plans approved by the City Engineer. When
the conditions of approval of the Preliminary Parcel Map specify that
improvements are required to be constructed prior to the grant of any
development right, no building permit shall be issued until the improvements
have been constructed or suitably guaranteed in accordance with Section 17.08 G.
of the Code. (Amended by Ord. No. 157,811, Eff. 8/13/83.)	2.5.	That if grading
or construction of an engineered retaining structure is required by the Advisory
Agency to remove potential geologic hazards, such grading or construction shall
be completed or guaranteed to the satisfaction of the City Engineer and/or the
Superintendent of Building. (Added by Ord. No. 143,254, Eff.
5/14/72.)	3.	(Amended by Ord. No. 143,254, Eff. 5/14/72.) When recommended by
the Fire Department, the Advisory Agency may as a condition of approval of the
preliminary Parcel Map, require the installation of fire hydrants to the
satisfaction of the Fire Department.	(a)	Upon proper application to the City
Council, and upon recommendation of the City Engineer of Waterworks of the
Department of Water and Power, the City may provide for contribution toward the
costs of installation of water mains and hydrants necessary to comply with this
subsection where said Chief Engineer determines that the cost of such
installation is greatly in excess of normal charges for providing like
facilities.	4.	Failure to fulfill all conditions of a conditional approval
within one year after the date of such approval shall automatically terminate
and void the proceedings. Upon application, prior to the expiration of the
original one–year period, an extension of time for a period not exceeding one
year may be granted by the Advisory Agency. The Advisory Agency’s
determination on an application for a time extension shall be subject to the
appeal provision of Section 17.54 of this Code. (Added by Ord. No. 143,254, Eff.
5/14/72.)	D.	Modification of Requirements. (Amended by Ord. No. 143,254, Eff.
5/14/72.)	1.	The Advisory Agency may modify or waive any dedication or
improvement requirements where the division of land is for the purpose of
disposing of land by a public agency, if it determines such action is in the
public interest.	2.	The Advisory Agency may also modify or waive the application
of the Design Standards for Streets and Alleys and the improvements required by
this section and Section 17.05 of this Code when it finds that their strict
application would result in practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships
inconsistent with the general purposes and intent of these regulations.	Before
approving the omission of any of the aforesaid requirements, the Advisory Agency
shall refer the matter back to the agency which originally recommended the
requirement, and to any other involved agency for further report, with a
statement of the reasons for its omission.	3.	Notwithstanding the above, the
Advisory Agency may not waive any mandatory requirements relating to public
health or safety recommended by other officials or departments in the exercise
of their duties prescribed by law.	4.	Where the Advisory Agency elects to modify
or waive requirements it shall do so within the time limit established in
Subsection F. of this section and any such modification or waiver shall in all
cases be consistent with the intent of these parcel map
regulations.	E.	Disapproval. In the event the preliminary Parcel Map is
disapproved, the disapproval shall be in writing, shall set forth the reasons
and clearly indicate wherein the proposed Parcel Map would be contrary to any of
the provisions of these regulations, and shall be transmitted to the applicant.
(Amended by Ord. No. 130,871, Eff. 9/20/65.)	F.	Time Limits for Action by the
Advisory Agency. (Amended by Ord. No. 143,254, Eff. 5/14/72.) The Advisory
Agency shall review and either approve, conditionally approve or disapprove the
map within 30 days after the filing of the map with the Planning Department, or
within such additional time as is mutually agreed upon in writing by the
applicant and the Advisory Agency, unless geology and soils reports are required
as specified in Section 17.51 C. of this Code, in which case the Advisory Agency
shall act within 44 days after the subject geologic and soils reports have been
submitted by the applicant or within such additional time as is mutually agreed
upon in writing by the applicant and the Advisory Agency.	If the Advisory Agency
refers a matter back to an agency as provided for in Section 17.53 D.2. of this
Code, the time limits for action by the Advisory Agency shall automatically be
extended for 7 days.	G.	Where Parcel Map Includes Land Within Drainage District.
Whenever a Parcel Map, or a portion thereof includes land which is within a
Local Drainage District, the provisions and requirements of the ordinance
establishing such District shall be complied with. (Added by Ord. No. 142,862,
Eff. 2/13/72.)	H.	Modifications of Approved Preliminary Parcel Maps. The
Advisory Agency may grant slight modifications to a Preliminary Parcel Map upon
its own initiative or upon a request from a subdivider. The modifications may be
granted where it is impractical to conform to the strict application of the
requirements of this article for one or more of the following reasons relating
to the property: (1) its size or shape; (2) title limitations of record; (3)
topographical location or conditions, or subsurface conditions; (4) the specific
intended use; or (5) the application of provisions of Article 1 of this chapter.
A request for slight modification shall be submitted in a form acceptable to the
Advisory Agency. Notice of the action of the Advisory Agency shall be given to
the subdivider and to all persons to whom notification of the preliminary parcel
map is required by law. The Advisory Agency action on a slight modification
request may be appealed in accordance with the provisions of Section 17.54 of
this Code. The action of the Advisory Agency on a slight modification or an
appeal from that action shall not extend the time for recording a Parcel Map
with the County Recorder. (Added by Ord. No. 156,358, Eff.
3/21/82.)	I.	Clarification Authority. If the City Council imposes a condition as
part of an action on a related application that differs from a condition of
approval on a preliminary parcel map, then the Advisory Agency shall have the
authority to make the parcel map conditions consistent with the City Council
action. (Added by Ord. No. 176,321, Eff. 1/15/05.)	J.	Further Authority. (Added
by Ord. No. 176,321, Eff. 1/15/05.)  The Advisory Agency, acting in the
capacity of an Associate Zoning Administrator, shall have the authority to
reduce the width of required passageways pursuant to Section 12.21 C.2.(b) to no
less than five feet between habitable buildings and detached condominiums,
unless the Fire Department determines that the reduction would result in a
safety hazard.  And shall have the authority to grant deviations of no more
than 20 percent from the applicable area, yard, and height requirements.  The
subdivider must ask for adjustment(s) at the time of filing.  In permitting
adjustments, the Advisory Agency shall make the findings contained in Section
12.28 C.4.	The reductions/deviations shall be included in the written decision
of the Advisory Agency.  Notification and appeal rights to such
reductions/deviations shall conform to Section 17.54 A.
