                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PARCEL MAPS – GENERAL PROVISIONS. (§ 17.50)

  PARCEL MAPS – GENERAL PROVISIONS.	A.	Purpose. The following parcel map
regulations are intended to assure compliance with the Subdivision Map Act, the
Comprehensive Zoning Plan of the City of Los Angeles as set forth in Article 2
of this chapter, and the various elements of the City’s General Plan, to
assure lots of acceptable design and of a size compatible with the size of
existing lots in the immediate neighborhood; to preserve property values; to
assure compliance with the Design Standards for Streets and Alleys as specified
in Section 17.05 of this Code where street or alley dedication and/or
improvement are required; and to prevent interference with the opening or
extension of streets necessary for emergency vehicle access, proper traffic
circulation and the future development of adjacent properties; and to provide
that the dividing of land in the hillside areas be done in a manner which will
assure that the separate parcels can be safely graded and developed as building
sites. (Amended by Ord. No. 143,254, Eff. 5/14/72.)	B.	Scope.	1.	No land shall
be separated in ownership or otherwise divided into two, three, or four parcels
or condominiums, and no such divided parcel or condominium shall be separately
maintained unless the division conforms to that shown on a parcel map which has
been approved by the Advisory Agency and recorded in the office of the county
recorder.  (Amended by Ord. No. 147,224*, Eff. 6/27/75.)	* The provisions of
this ordinance shall become operative 90 days after the publication date of such
ordinance.	2.	No building permit shall be issued, and no building or structure
shall be constructed, altered or maintained on any land which has been separated
in ownership or otherwise divided into two, three or four parcels in violation
of the provisions of this article, and until and unless a Parcel Map has been
recorded in the office of the county recorder All conditions of approval shall
be completed prior to filing the Parcel Map.	3.	These regulations shall not
apply to the leasing of apartments, offices, stores or similar space within an
apartment building, industrial building, commercial building or mobilehome park,
nor to mineral, oil or gas leases, nor shall they apply to the following
divisions of land, except as may be required by Subsection C. hereof.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 161,716, Eff. 12/6/86.)	(a)	Those made in compliance with the
Subdivision Map Act and the subdivision regulations contained in this
article.	(b)	Those divisions of land made solely because of the sale,
acquisition, lease or combining of lands by governmental agencies, including
City of Los Angeles and any department thereof, or any further division of such
lands by a lessee of such governmental agency.	(c)	(Amended by Ord. No. 176,321,
Eff. 1/15/05.)  Those where the Advisory Agency or the Appeal Board determines
that all the following conditions exist:	(1)	A lot line adjustment is made
between four or fewer existing adjoining lots or parcels and the land taken from
one lot or parcel is added to an adjoining lot or parcel;	(2)	The resulting
number of lots or parcels remains the same or is decreased;	(3)	The parcels or
lots resulting from the lot line adjustment will conform to the local general
plan, any applicable coastal plan, and zoning and building ordinances.	(d)	Those
involving land dedicated for cemetery purposes under the applicable provisions
contained in the Health and Safety Code of the State of California.	C.	Parcel
Maps – Divisions of Land of Five or More Parcels not Subdivisions.	1.	(Amended
by Ord. No. 146,985, Eff. 4/11/75.) No parcel of land shall be separated in
ownership or otherwise divided into five or more parcels, where such a division
is not a subdivision by reason of the exceptions contained in Subdivisions (a),
(b), (c) and (d) of Section 66426 of the Subdivision Map Act, and no such
divided parcel shall be separately maintained unless a Tentative Map of such
division has been approved by the Advisory Agency and a Parcel Map prepared in
conformity therewith and has been recorded in the office of the county
recorder.	2.	Where the Advisory Agency determines that a Tentative Map filed for
the division of land described in Subdivision (b) and (c) of Section 66426 of
the Subdivision Map Act complies with all the requirements of this article, but
that dedication for street opening or widening or easements is necessary, it
shall require that an offer to dedicate such additional land as is necessary
therefor to be made in a manner provided by Section 17.53 C.1. of this Code.
(Amended by Ord. No. 146,985, Eff. 4/11/75.)	3.	Where the Advisory Agency
determines that a Tentative Map filed for the division of land described in
Subdivision (c) of Section 66426 of the Subdivision Map Act complies with all of
the requirements of this Article, but that improvement of public or private
streets, highways, ways or easements is necessary for local traffic, drainage or
sanitary needs, such improvements shall be constructed, or their construction
and completion guaranteed in the manner provided by Section 17.08 of this Code,
as a condition of approval of the Tentative Map. (Amended by Ord. No. 146,985,
Eff. 4/11/75.)	4.	No building permit shall be issued, and no building or
structure shall be constructed, altered or maintained on any land which has been
separated in ownership or otherwise divided into five or more parcels, where a
final map is not required for such a division by reason of the exceptions
contained in Subdivision (a), (b), (c) and (d) of Section 66426 of the
Subdivision Map Act, in violation of the provisions of this article. All
conditions of approval shall be completed prior to submitting the parcel map to
the City Engineer. (Amended by Ord. No. 146,985, Eff. 4/11/75.)	D.	Waiver of
Parcel Maps. (Amended by Ord. No. 159,630, Eff. 2/25/85.)	1.	Findings. The
Advisory Agency may waive Parcel Maps required by this section so long as it
finds that the proposed division of land complies with such requirements as may
have been established by the Subdivision Map Act (Government Code Sections 66410
et seq. ) or this article as to area, improvement and design, floodwater
drainage control, appropriate improved public roads, sanitary disposal
facilities, water supply availability, environmental protection, and other
requirements of the Subdivision Map Act or this article, provided that in
waiving such a Parcel Map the Advisory Agency may receive a preliminary Parcel
Map.	2.	Procedure. A request for a waiver of a Parcel Map shall be submitted by
the subdivider in a form acceptable to the Advisory Agency. Notice of the action
of the Advisory Agency upon such a request shall be given to the subdivider and
to all persons to whom notification of the preliminary Parcel Map is required by
law. The Advisory Agency action on a request for a waiver of a Parcel Map may be
appealed in accordance with the provisions of Section 17.54 of this Code.
Provided that in overruling an Advisory Agency denial of such a request for a
waiver of a Parcel Map, the Appeal Board shall make the findings required by
Subdivision 1. of this subsection. (Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00,
Oper. 7/1/00.)	E.	Slope Density. (Added by Ord. No. 162,144, Eff. 5/11/87.)  In
Hillside Areas, as defined in Chapter 1 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code, which
are designated in the Minimum Density housing category by the applicable element
of the General Plan adopted by the City Council, the dwelling unit density shall
not exceed that allowed by the following formula:  (Paragraph and following
formula Amended by Ord. No. 179,035, Eff. 9/17/07.)	Where:		D =	the maximum
number of dwelling units per gross acre allowable, and			S =	the average natural
slope of the land in percent.	Where the total allowable number of dwelling units
per parcel map or tentative tract map calculated under the above formulas
results in a number other than a whole number, it shall be rounded to the
nearest whole number as follows: where the fractional portion of the total
allowable number of dwelling units equals .5 or more, the total number of
allowable dwelling units shall be rounded to the next larger whole number; where
the fractional portion of the total allowable number of dwelling units equals
less than .5, the total number of allowable dwelling units shall be rounded to
the next smaller whole number	In no case shall the permitted density be less
than 0.05 dwelling units per gross acre.  Where the total allowable number of
dwelling units per parcel map calculated under the above formula results in a
number less than one, it shall be rounded up to allow one dwelling unit per
parcel map.  Where previous grading on a site makes it difficult to determine
average natural slope using the above formula, the Director of Planning shall
determine the average natural slope in a manner to carry out the purpose and
intent of this subsection.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,035, Eff.
9/17/07.)	F.	Public Notice and Hearing. (Added by Ord. No. 176,321, Eff.
1/15/05.)  Upon receipt of a complete application, the Advisory Agency shall
set the matter for public hearing at which evidence shall be taken.  The
Advisory Agency shall give notice consistent with the provisions of Section
17.06 A.1. of the L.A.M.C.	Waiver.  The Advisory Agency may waive the public
hearing required in this subsection if the applicant submits with the
application the written approval of the owners of all properties abutting,
across the street or alley from, and/or having a common corner with the parcel
map.  A copy of the determination shall be mailed to the applicant, and to the
owners of all properties abutting, across the street or alley from, or having a
common corner with the subject property and/or to all persons who have filed
written requests for notice with the Advisory Agency.
