                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

APPEALS. (§ 17.54)

  APPEALS.	A.	Procedure.  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)	Appeal
to Appeal Board.  An applicant or any other person claiming to be aggrieved by
an action or determination of the Advisory Agency with respect to a preliminary
Parcel Map, certificate or conditional certificate of compliance pursuant to
California Government Code Section 66499.35 or an exemption from the Parcel Map
regulations pursuant to Section 17.50 B.3.(c) of this Code may, within a period
of 15 days after the date of mailing of the decision of the Advisory Agency,
appeal to the Appeal Board for a public hearing.  to the Appeal Board shall be
filed in duplicate in a public office of the Department of City Planning on
forms provided for that purpose and shall be accompanied by the fees required in
Section 19.02 of this Code.  The appeal shall not be considered as having been
filed unless and until the form has been properly completed and all information
required by it has been submitted.  The complete appeal form and file shall
then immediately be transmitted to the Appeal Board Secretary for hearing before
the Appeal Board.	The Appeal Board, upon notice to the applicant, the person
claiming to be aggrieved, if any, and the Advisory Agency, shall hear the appeal
within 30 days after the expiration of the 15-day appeal period unless the
applicant consents to an extension of time pursuant to Subsection B. of this
section.  At the time established for the hearing, the Appeal Board shall hear
the testimony of the applicant and witnesses in his/her behalf, the testimony of
any aggrieved persons, if there are any, and the testimony of the Advisory
Agency and any witnesses on its behalf.  The Appeal Board may also hear the
testimony of other competent persons respecting the character of the
neighborhood in which the division of land is to be located, the kinds, nature
and extent of improvements, the quality or kinds of development to which the
area is best adapted or any other relevant phase of the matter into which the
Appeal Board may desire to inquire.	Upon conclusion of the hearing, the Appeal
Board shall within 14 days declare findings based upon the testimony and
documents produced before it.  It may sustain, modify, reject or overrule any
recommendation or ruling of the Advisory Agency and may make findings consistent
with applicable provisions of this article.	Failure to Act.  If at the end of
the time limit specified in this subsection or at the end of any extension of
time pursuant to Subsection B. of this section, the Appeal Board fails to act,
the appeal shall be deemed denied and the decision from which the appeal was
taken shall be deemed affirmed.	B.	Extension Of Time. Any of the time limits
specified in this section may be extended by mutual consent of the applicant and
the Advisory Agency or the Appeal Board. (B. Deleted, C. Relettered B. and
Amended by Ord. No. 176,321, Eff. 1/15/05.)
