                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PARCEL MAP – AUTHORITY OF ADVISORY AGENCY. (§ 17.52)

  PARCEL MAP – AUTHORITY OF ADVISORY AGENCY.	A.	Disapproval Of Maps.	1.	No
preliminary Parcel Map shall be approved which violates or would result in a
violation of, or fails to comply with, the Subdivision Map Act or any other
applicable law of this City or State. (Amended by Ord. No. 130,871, Eff.
9/20/65.)	2.	In addition the Advisory Agency may disapprove a preliminary Parcel
Map if, after investigation, it determines that said map does not substantially
comply with the various elements of the City’s General Plan, or does not
provide such street or alley dedication or improvements as are necessary to
achieve the purposes of these regulations, or fails to provide acceptable lot
design or lot sizes which closely conform to the size of the contiguous or
nearby lots on the same street, or results in reorientation of a lot or parcel
in such a manner as to be detrimental to adjoining properties or the surrounding
neighborhood. (Amended by Ord. No. 138,800, Eff. 6/23/69.)	3.	Where a Parcel Map
involves land for which a General Plan, including dwelling unit densities, has
been adopted by the Council, and said land is also in an “H” Hillside or
Mountainous Area established by Article 2 of this Chapter, the number of lots or
parcels on said map shall be limited so that the number of dwelling units
permitted by the applicable zoning regulations shall not substantially exceed
the dwelling unit densities shown on said plan. (Amended by Ord. No. 138,800,
Eff. 6/23/69.)	4.	Where a Parcel Map includes land upon which either a
combination of parking and commercial zones or a combination of parking and
industrial zones has been established, the Parcel Map shall not be approved
unless each parcel being created substantially conforms to the established ratio
of space for parking to space for commercial use or space for parking to space
for industrial use as such ratio existed immediately prior to the land division.
(Amended by Ord. No. 141,831, Eff. 5/30/71.)	5.	The Advisory Agency shall
disapprove a preliminary Parcel Map when the property is situated in a Hillside
Area as defined in Article 1 of Chapter 9 of this Code and the Department of
Building and Safety or the Bureau of Engineering has submitted a report in
writing to the Advisory Agency recommending disapproval of the preliminary
Parcel Map because of any existing or potential geologic hazards lacking
satisfactory engineering solutions. (Amended by Ord. No. 143,254, Eff.
5/14/72.)	6.	The Advisory Agency may disapprove a preliminary Parcel Map unless
the proposed name of each street thereon has been approved by the City Engineer.
Advisory Agency approval shall be withheld if the City Engineer has determined
that a proposed street name would create confusion, be misleading, be unduly
long or carry connotations offensive to good taste and decency (Added by Ord No
158,691, Eff. 3/12/84 )	B.	Lots May Be Increased In Size.	1.	Where the Advisory
Agency finds it necessary in order to promote the general welfare, to provide
for a more consistent development for the area, and to preserve property values,
it may require that lots or parcels described in a Parcel Map and located in an
RA or R Zone be increased in size from that proposed so as to more closely
conform to the size of existing contiguous lots or nearby parcels on the same
street. However, in no case may the Advisory Agency require such parcels in the
aforementioned zones other than RA, RE20 and RE40 to contain an area of more
than 20,000 square feet (Amended by Ord. No. 133,753, Eff. 2/12/67)	2.	Where the
Advisory Agency finds that a future public easement will be needed on a portion
of such lots or parcels for street or other public uses, it may require that
such lots or parcels be increased in size from the proposed so as to provide
space for such easement; and in addition, it may impose conditions prohibiting
or restricting the erection for buildings, or structures on that portion needed
for such easement. (Amended by Ord. No. 130,871, Eff. 9/20/65.)	C.	Maps
Involving Private Road Easements. Whenever a proposed division of land involves
one or more parcels which are contiguous or adjacent to a private road easement
with the remaining parcel contiguous or adjacent to a dedicated street, only the
Parcel Map need be filed, without requiring the payment of additional fees or
the filing of a Private Street Map. The Advisory Agency may approve,
conditionally approve, or disapprove the map subject to the applicable
provisions of this article or Article 8, Chapter 1 of this Code. (Amended by
Ord. No. 130,871, Eff. 9/20/65.)	D.	Lots In The Very High Fire Hazard Severity
Zone.  (Title Amended by Ord. No. 176,943, Eff. 10/5/05.)	1.	(Amended by Ord.
No. 176, 943, Eff. 10/5/05.)  The Advisory Agency may disapprove a preliminary
Parcel Map for land located in the Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zone, pursuant
to Section 57.25.01 of the Municipal Code, because of inadequate fire protection
facilities unless:	(a)	The designated area in which buildings are to be erected
on each proposed parcel or lot, as shown on said map, are located not more than
1,000 feet from a fire hydrant, said distance to be measured along a route
providing reasonable access, as determined by the Fire Chief, for the laying of
fire hoses in an emergency, or	(b)	Said Fire Chief reports that adequate fire
protection exists, or is in the process of being provided, for said parcels or
lots.	2.	Upon proper application to the City Council, and upon recommendation of
the Chief Engineer of Waterworks of the Department of Water and Power, the City
may provide for contribution toward the cost of installation of water mains and
hydrants necessary to comply with this subsection where said Chief Engineer
determines that the cost of such installation is greatly in excess of normal
charges for providing like facilities.	E.	Maps Involving Future Streets. In the
event that the Advisory Agency determines that certain streets or alleys in a
proposed division of land must be reserved for future public use, they shall be
indicated on the preliminary Parcel Map and offered for dedication as future
streets or future alleys prior to recording the Parcel Map. The applicant shall
furnish the Bureau of Right of Way and Land an offer of dedication therefor in
accordance with the provisions of Subdivision 1 of Subsection C of Section 17.53
of this Code. (Amended by Ord. No. 130,871, Eff. 9/20/65.)	F.	(Deleted by Ord.
No. 177,103, Eff. 12/18/05.)	G.	Maintenance Of Accessory Structures. (Added by
Ord. No. 133,795, Eff. 2/17/67.) Where the Advisory Agency determines that a
proposed Parcel Map complies with all provisions of these Parcel Map
Regulations, but finds that the proposed division of land will result in an
accessory building or structure being on a parcel separated from the main
building or a residential building being on a parcel without the required
off-street parking spaces and, in order to afford the applicant time to properly
provide a main building on the same parcel with the accessory structure or
building, or to remove same, or to provide the required off-street parking
spaces with the residential building, the Advisory Agency may approve the
proposed Parcel Map and the continued use and maintenance of said accessory
structures or buildings separated from the main building for a period of time
not to exceed one year and the residential building without the off-street
parking spaces for a period of time not to exceed 90 days subject to the
following conditions:	1.	That as a prerequisite to the filing of the final
Parcel Map with the City Engineer, the owner or owners of record of the subject
property shall record in the office of the County Recorder of Los Angeles
County, California, a covenant running with the and in which such owner or
owners agree to comply with an the conditions imposed by the Advisory Agency in
approving the Parcel Map.	2.	That upon approval of the proposed Parcel Map, in
addition to the permanent copy placed on file in the City Planning Department,
the Advisory Agency shall furnish a copy of said action to the applicant and to
the Department of Building and Safety.	H.	Lots Involving a Common Slope.
Whenever two or more lots are to be created on a common slope and the City
Engineer or Superintendent of Building determines that condition so dictate, the
Advisory Agency may require as a condition of approval of the preliminary Parcel
Map that appropriate deed covenants on a form approved by the City Attorney be
recorded which provide to each owner of said common slope a joint right on entry
for access of men and equipment, and a joint easement over the slope area to
maintain and repair said common slope. (Added by Ord. No. 143,254, Eff.
5/14/72.)	I.	When a protected tree exists on a proposed parcel, the preservation
of the tree at its existing location, its relocation for preservation purposes,
or the removal of the tree shall be regulated in the same manner as that
provided under subdivision regulations set forth in this chapter.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 177,404, Eff. 4/23/06.)	J.	Greater Downtown Housing Incentive Area. 
In calculating the allowable floor area of a parcel map proposed to be developed
as a residential (including Apartment Hotel or mixed use) building in the
Greater Downtown Housing Incentive Area, any land required to be dedicated for
street purposes shall be included as part of the lot area of the parcel map. 
(Added by Ord. No. 179,076, Eff. 9/23/07.)
