                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PRIVATE STREET NAMES. (§ 18.09)

  PRIVATE STREET NAMES.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 158,691, Eff. 3/12/84.)	A.	Private street names shall be
established or changed pursuant to procedures set forth in this section in the
event no Private Street Map is required under Section 18.03.	B.	For purposes of
this section only, “private street” shall mean only ingress and/or egress
easement, roadway, walkway, or other right of way open to travel by pedestrians,
non-motorized vehicles, or motor vehicles which is not a public street or way
whether or not the instrument creating it has been recorded or filed in the
Office of the Recorder of Los Angeles County.	C.	Applications to establish or
change the name of a private street shall be filed with the City Engineer. They
shall be signed by a majority of the owners of properties abutting the private
street or that portion of the street to be named or renamed, and be accompanied
by:	1.	Payment of the required application processing fees;	2.	A map, drawn to
scale, delineating the location, extent, width, and alignment of the private
street, the approximate location and frontage dimensions of said parcels on said
street and the location of existing public streets which it may ingress or
egress; and	3.	Identity of the maker of the map and of the names and addresses
of owners of record of property abutting the private street or that portion of
the street to be named or renamed.	D.	The Council may initiate proceedings to
name or rename a private street. In such event the Council action shall be
referred to the City Engineer. That office shall process said action in the
manner set forth in Subdivision E. and, if necessary or appropriate under the
circumstances, shall prepare a map in the manner which satisfies the
requirements set forth in Subdivision 2. of Subsection C. of this
section.	E.	Where there is an application filed to name or rename a private
street and no new Private Street Map is required pursuant to Section 18.03, or
there is a Council–initiated request, a private street may be named or renamed
to a requested new name and the necessary documents recorded by the City
Engineer with respect thereto, pursuant to the following procedure:	1.	The City
Engineer shall determine whether the proposed new name or change of name of a
street is in the public interest and will not create confusion, be misleading,
or be unduly long or carry connotations offensive to good taste and
decency;	2.	The City Engineer shall give notice of the proposed new street name
or name change to the record owners and occupants of all real property abutting
such private street. The notice shall designate the location of the private
street or portion thereof to which the proposed new name is to apply. The
street, or the affected portion thereof, shall be described in the notice with
reference to other streets, and by the name or names, if any, which it bears or
by which it, or any portion thereof, may be or may have been known, and the
notice shall also state the proposed new street name. The notice shall further
set forth whether or not the City Engineer’s determination recommends
disapproval of the proposed name for reasons provided in Subdivision 1. above,
and shall state that any written objections with respect to the proposed new
name or name change or the City Engineer’s recommendation, shall be filed with
the City Engineer within 30 days after a date designated on the notice as
applicable for said purpose, and that said objections shall be signed by each
person so objecting.	In the event any objections are filed within the 30–day
time limit, or within said time period any objections are filed with respect to
a City Engineer’s recommendation of disapproval, the City Engineer shall
forward these, together with the City Engineer’s determination and
recommendations and the applicable file to the City Council. The Council shall
set the matter for hearing and the City Clerk shall thereupon notify by mail
each person objecting to the proposed street name or to the City Engineer’s
recommendation of disapproval and inform that person of the time and place for
hearing. At the time specified, the Council shall hear all objections and shall
thereafter approve or disapprove the proposed street name. The City Council’s
decision shall be final and conclusive.	In the event no objections are filed
with the City Engineer within 30 days of the date prescribed on the notice and
the City Engineer has not recommended disapproval of the proposed new name, the
application for that name shall be deemed approved. In the event the City
Engineer has recommended disapproval of the proposed name, and no objections to
that recommendation have been filed, the application shall be deemed denied.	If
the new name is either approved by the Council, or in the event no Council
hearing was required, and the application is deemed approved, the new private
street name shall be effective and, the City Engineer shall cause any necessary
indexing and/or recordation of documents to be accomplished and shall provide a
copy of the determination to all City Departments rendering emergency service to
the affected properties and to the United States Postal Service.	F.	The approval
or deemed approval of a private street name as provided for in this Chapter is
not, and shall not be construed to be, an acceptance of a private street as a
public street, nor shall it create any public warranty or liability or legal
status as a public street or be so construed with respect
thereto.	G.	1.	Application processing fees shall be nonrefundable.	2.	The
application processing fee shall be $4,200.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,237, Eff.
9/28/12.)
