                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PROCEDURE. (§ 18.03)

  PROCEDURE.	(a)	(Amended by Ord. No. 122,064, Eff. 6/14/62.)  No person shall
plat or divide land as lots or building sites which are contiguous or adjacent
to a private road easement and no person shall be granted a building permit for
such a lot or building site unless a Private Street Map has been first filed
with and approved by the Director in accordance with the provisions of this
article. Every person who shall plat or divide such land, and every person
applying for a building permit for such lots or building sites shall file with
the Director at least 15 copies of a Private Street Map showing the proposed
platting or division of land. Such maps shall be prepared with respect to all
engineering data required herein by or under the direction of a licensed
surveyor or a registered civil engineer, and shall contain the following
information:	1.	A private street map number furnished by the County Surveyor,
together with the following statement: “The purpose of this map is to obtain
approval of private streets.”	2.	Sufficient legal description of the land to
describe the location of the proposed division of lands, together with a
location survey of the private street.	3.	Names and addresses of record owners
or of other persons dividing the land, and the engineer or surveyor;	4.	The
locations, names and existing widths of all adjoining and contiguous public
highways, streets and ways and private streets and the proposed name of each
private street on the land platted or divided. (Amended by Ord. No. 158,691,
Eff. 3/12/84.)	5.	The widths and approximate grades of all existing and proposed
public highways, streets and ways and private streets;	6.	The approximate width
and location of all existing and proposed easements for drainage, sewer and
public utility purposes;	7.	Approximate radii of all curves;	8.	The approximate
lot layout and the approximate dimensions of each lot or building site;	9.	The
approximate location, width and direction of flow of all water courses;	10.	The
proposed method of sewage disposal;	11.	The proposed use of property;	12.	The
approximately accurate contours drawn to intervals prescribed by the City
Engineer where topography controls or influences the layout or water
supply;	13.	The approximate location of all trees that will affect locations of
easements;	14.	The date, north point and scale;	15.	The approximate location and
outline of each existing building or structure;	16.	The boundary line of the
parcel of land divided;	17.	Any of the foregoing data which is impossible or
impractical to place upon the Private Street Map shall be submitted in writing
with the map.	(b)	The director shall not accept any Private Street Map for
filing unless the fees prescribed in this Chapter shall have been paid. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 129,575, Eff. 4/4/65.)	(c)	The Director shall not act on
any Private Street Map until he receives a report thereon from the City
Engineer, the Department of Building and Safety, the Fire Department and the
Department of Water and Power. Reports from the Departments shall be submitted
to the Director within 30 days of the date of receipt of request for said
reports.  (Amended by Ord. No. 127,508, Eff. 6/29/64.)
