                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PRIVATE STREETS, LOT OR BUILDING SITE STANDARDS. (§ 18.05)

  PRIVATE STREETS, LOT OR BUILDING SITE STANDARDS.	All private streets, lots or
building sites shall conform to the following regulations:	A.	Major and
Secondary Highways.  (Amended by Ord. No. 172,840, Eff. 11/4/99.)  The
location, widths and alignment of all private streets shall conform to the
location, widths and alignment of all major and secondary highways designated on
the Highways and Freeways maps of the Transportation Element of the General
Plan; and to any proceedings for any public improvement; and to any
“subdivision map” which has been tentatively approved.	B.	Local Street
Alignment – All private streets as far as practical shall be in alignment with
existing public or private streets and their proper projections or prolongations
provided that where the property being divided into lots or building sites is
large enough a modified curve street layout may be permitted;	C.	Private Street
Width – All  private streets shall be designed to conform with private street
standards adopted by the Commission as provided in Section 17.05 of the Code; 
(Amended by Ord. No. 122,064, Eff. 6/14/62.)	D.	Street Grades – On hillside or
mountain streets comprising a through route, a grade in excess of six percent
(6%) shall not be permitted unless a grade not to exceed eight percent (8%) will
obviate an excessive curvature or eliminate excessive cuts. Grades of all
streets shall be as low as possible consistent with the advantageous development
of the proposed platting and division of land;	The grade of any street of more
than local traffic needs shall not exceed ten percent (10%). No local street
grade shall exceed fifteen percent (15%);	E.	Curves And Tangents – A minimum
center line radius of at least seventy–five (75) feet shall be used on winding
mountain streets, a minimum center line radius of at least five hundred (500)
feet shall be used on all through traffic streets. In flat areas, curves on
local streets shall have radii as long as possible consistent with local
conditions. The tangent distance between reversed curves shall not be less than
fifty (50) feet;	F.	Intersections – Private street intersections shall be as
nearly at right angles as practicable;	G.	Effect on Adjoining Property –
Private street layout shall be designed to provide access to and not impose
undue hardship upon property adjoining the proposed division of
lands;	H.	Cul-De-Sacs (Dead-End Streets) – Cul-de-sacs shall be permitted only
where through streets are not practical, or where good neighborhood design
suggests their use. Adequate provisions for turning shall be made at the end of
each such cul-de-sacs by providing a circle or other area within a minimum over
all radius of 42 feet. In the case of unusual topographic conditions, a “T”
or “Y” turn may be permitted. The legs of the “T” or “Y” turn shall
have a minimum paved surface 12 feet in width and 20 feet in length, the minimum
radius between each leg and the street shall be 20 feet.	I.	Rounding Block
Corner – At all block corners, the property line shall be rounded or cut back.
Intersection corners on the private street prolongation of major and secondary
highways shall be rounded with 20′ radius curves and all other corners shall
be rounded with 15′ radius curves provided that where business development is
indicated a diagonal cut-off substantially equivalent to rounding may be used in
order to aid building construction, in which case at right angle intersections a
substantial equivalent shall be a ten-foot by ten-foot cutoff.	J.	Improvements,
Drainage And Sewage –	1.	All private streets and all lots and building sites
laid out contiguous or adjacent to private streets shall have approved drainage
facilities and the method for sewage disposal shall be approved by the
Department of Health. All such private streets shall be graded and improved to
an approved width and grade. The street grading and improvement shall include
surface improvements, fire hydrants and water mains, catch basins, pipe
culverts, sanitary sewers where reasonably available and storm drains where
required. Drainage easements shall be improved to an approved manner. Major and
secondary highways shall be graded to an approved width and improved to an
approved width and grade necessary for the general use of lot owners adjoining
said private street and local neighborhood traffic and drainage needs;	2.	Where
street improvements, drainage or sewers are required to be constructed in a
private street, plans and profiles showing the grades and the nature and extent
of the required improvements shall be filed with the City Engineer for his
approval, the checking of plans, inspections, supervision and other services
rendered in connection with the construction of required improvements shall be
accomplished under permits in accordance with the provisions of Section
62.105(b) of this Code.	3.	Where improvements have been previously constructed
in a private street, plans and profiles showing the grades and the nature and
extent of the existing improvements shall be filed with the City Engineer for
the approval and said plans shall be checked and where additional construction
is required, the same shall be inspected and supervised, and all services
rendered in connection with the existing or required improvements shall be
accomplished under permit in accordance with the provisions of Section 62.105(b)
of this Code.	4.	Whenever a Private Street Map or a portion thereof includes
land which is within a Local Drainage District, the provisions and requirements
of the ordinance establishing such District shall be complied with. (Added by
Ord. No. 142,862, Eff. 2/13/72.)	K.	Conformance To General Plan.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 138,800, Operative 6/23/69.)  Each Private Street Map shall be
designed in compliance with the zoning applying to the property or approved by
the City Council for change.	In addition, where a Private Street Map involves
land for which a General Plan including dwelling unit densities has been adopted
by the Council, and said land is also in an “H” Hillside or Mountainous Area
established by Article 2 of this chapter, the number of lots or building sites
on said map shall be limited so that the number of dwelling units permitted by
the applicable zoning regulations shall not substantially exceed the dwelling
unit densities shown on said plan. Provided, however, that the Council, upon
determining that a different density would be more in accord with the public
health, safety and welfare after considering the existing, proposed and ultimate
traffic, sewage, drainage and other facilities in the area or any other
pertinent information, and after report and recommendation from the City
Planning Commission, may by resolution establish a different density than that
shown on the adopted General Plan. In such instances the number of lots
permitted on the Private Street Map may be based on the densities established by
such resolution so long as the size of such lots is not less than that required
by the applicable zoning provisions. Should the Commission fail to act upon a
request for different density within 50 days of its submission such request
shall be transferred to the Council for action thereon.	Each Private Street Map
shall substantially conform to all other elements of the General Plan as adopted
by the Commission.
