                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DUTIES OF DIRECTOR. (§ 18.02)

  DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.	The Director is hereby charged with the duty of making
investigations and approving the platting and division of land as lots or
building sites which are contiguous or adjacent to private road easements, and
of determining the following:  (Amended by Ord. No. 122,064, Eff.
6/14/62.)	(a)	That there exists adequate and safe vehicular access to the
property from a public street over a private street for police, fire, sanitation
and public service vehicles.  (Amended by Ord. No. 109,695, Eff.
8/23/57.)	(b)	That an adequate water supply is available for domestic and fire
fighting purposes.  (Amended by Ord. No. 109,695, Eff. 8/23/57.)	(c)	That an
approved method of sewage disposal is available. Where, in order to properly
maintain drainage and sewer improvements or to adequately provide for their
connection with existing public facilities, it is necessary to acquire public
easement rights, an offer to dedicate such easements for sanitary sewer or storm
drain purposes may be required. The offer shall be properly executed by all
parties having a record interest therein, including beneficiaries under deeds of
trust, as shown by a current preliminary title report. Said title report to be
prepared by a title company approved by the Bureau of Right of Way and Land for
that purpose. The report shall be furnished by the applicant. The offer shall be
on a form approved by the City Attorney and the Director of the Bureau of Right
of Way and Land, be in such terms as to be binding on the owner, his heirs,
assigns or successors in interest, and shall continue until the City Council
accepts or rejects it. The offer shall provide that the dedication will be
complete upon the acceptance by the City Council. The Director or his deputy
shall approve or disapprove the offer for recordation within ten days after it
is filed with the Bureau. The offer shall be recorded by the Bureau of Right of
Way and Land in the Office of the County Recorder upon its approval by the
Director or his deputy. The offer shall thereafter be promptly presented and
processed by the City Departments concerned and submitted to the City Council,
in order to complete the dedication within the earliest possible time. If the
offer is rejected by the City Council, the Bureau of Right of Way and Land shall
issue a release from such offer which shall be recorded in the Office of the
County Recorder. When said Bureau approves the offer to dedicate, it shall
notify the City Engineer.  (Amended by Ord. No. 133,346, Eff.
12/26/66.)	(d)	That the lot or building site is graded and engineered in
accordance with the grading regulations of the City of Los Angeles as set forth
in Article 1 of Chapter 9 of this Code.  (Added by Ord. No. 122,064 Eff.
6/14/62.)	(e)	That any proposed name of a private street has been approved by
the City Engineer applying the standards set forth in Subdivision 6 of
Subsection A of Section 17.52.  (Added by Ord. No. 158,691, Eff. 3/12/84.)
