                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DIRECTOR APPROVAL AND APPEALS. (§ 18.08)

  DIRECTOR APPROVAL AND APPEALS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 176,321, Eff. 1/15/05.)	A.	Procedures.	1.	Action of the
Director.  All private street maps and all prints or photostatic copies of maps
as required in this article shall be submitted to the Director for approval. 
Within 40 days after the application is deemed complete, the Director shall
approve, conditionally approve or disapprove the map.  When the Director makes
a decision on the private street, the written action shall be transmitted to the
applicant.	2.	Public Notice and Hearing.  Upon receipt of a complete
application, the initial decision-maker shall set the matter for public hearing
at which evidence shall be taken.  The Director shall give notice consistent
with the provisions of Section 17.06 A.1. of the L.A.M.C.	3.	Waiver.  The
Director may waive the public hearing required in this section if the applicant
submits with the application the written approval of all owners of properties
adjacent or gaining access from the private street.  No appeal hearing shall be
waived.  Furthermore, with respect to private streets not set for public
hearing, a copy of the determination shall be mailed to the applicant, and to
the owners of properties adjacent or gaining access from the private street and
to all persons who have filed written requests for notice with the Department of
City Planning.	B.	Appeals to the Board.  An applicant or any other person
aggrieved by any action or determination of the Director of Planning with
respect to a private street map, may, within 15 days after the date of the
mailing of the decision of the Director, file an appeal from the action or
determination to the Board.  The Board shall consider the appeal within 30 days
after the expiration of the 15-day appeal period, and shall, within 14-days
affirm, modify, or reverse the action or determination.  The action of the
Board shall be final.	C.	Extension of Time.  Any of the time limits specified
in this section may be extended by mutual consent of the applicant and the
Director or the Appeal Board, as the case may be.	D.	Requirements for
Utilization of Private Street.  Notwithstanding Section 12.25 to the contrary,
the private street approval shall be void unless all conditions of approval are
completed or fulfilled within six years from the date of approval, except that
grading and improvement conditions shall be considered as fulfilled if the
required work is begun during that time limit and diligently carried on to
completion.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,106, Eff. 5/20/12.)
