                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEFINITIONS. (§ 183.01)

  DEFINITIONS.	The following definitions shall apply to this
chapter:	A.	“City” means the City of Los Angeles.	B.	“Change in Control”
means any sale, assignment, transfer, contribution, or other disposition of all
or substantially all of the assets used in the operation of a Hotel or a
discrete portion of the Hotel that continues in operation as a Hotel, or a
controlling interest (including by consolidation, merger, or reorganization) of
the Incumbent Hotel Employer or any Person who controls the Incumbent Hotel
Employer (IHE Parent).	C.	“Employment Commencement Date” means the date on
which a Hotel Worker retained by the Successor Hotel Employer pursuant to this
chapter commences work for the Successor Hotel Employer in exchange for benefits
and compensation under the terms and conditions established by the Successor
Hotel Employer or as required by law.	D.	“Hotel” means a residential
building located within the area designated by ordinance as the Gateway to LA
(Century Corridor) Property Business Improvement District (Century Corridor
PBID) that is designated or used for lodging and other related services for the
public, and containing 50 or more guest rooms, or suites of rooms.  “Hotel”
also includes any contracted, leased, or sublet premises connected to or
operated in conjunction with the building’s purpose, or providing services at
the building.  If the Century Corridor PBID ceases to exist, the boundaries at
the time of dissolution shall remain in effect for purposes of this
article.	E.	“Hotel Worker” means any individual (1) whose primary place of
employment is at a Hotel subject to a Change in Control, (2) who is employed
directly by the Incumbent Hotel Employer, or by a Person who has contracted with
the Incumbent Hotel Employer to provide services at the Hotel subject to a
Change in Control, and (3) who has worked for the Incumbent Hotel Employer for
at least one month prior to the execution of the Transfer Document.  “Hotel
Worker” does not include a managerial, supervisory, or confidential
employee.	F.	“Incumbent Hotel Employer” means the Person that owns,
controls, and/or operates a Hotel subject to a Change in Control prior to the
Change in Control.	G.	“Person” means an individual, corporation,
partnership, limited partnership, limited liability partnership, limited
liability company, business trust, estate, trust, association, joint venture,
agency, instrumentality, or any other legal or commercial entity, whether
domestic or foreign.	H.	“Successor Hotel Employer” means the Person that
owns, controls, and/or operates a Hotel subject to a Change in Control after the
Change in Control.	I.	“Transfer Document” means the purchase agreement or
other document(s) creating a binding agreement to effect the Change in Control.
