                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PURPOSE. (§ 184.00)

  PURPOSE.

	The Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) is among the world’s busiest
airports, hosting millions of travelers every year.  The City of Los Angeles
(City) operates and maintains LAX, and as a result of this support the
businesses in the area adjacent to LAX reap significant economic benefits.  In
particular, the hotels in the LAX area enjoy the highest occupancy rate of all
Los Angeles hotels due to their proximity to LAX.

	Despite the high occupancy rates of hotels in the LAX area, many of these
hotels fail to pay their service workers a living wage which in the City is
currently $10.64 per hour without health benefits or $9.39 per hour with health
benefits.  Because of the low hourly wages paid by these hotels, service
employees naturally rely on gratuities paid by hotel customers.

	In recent years, hotels in the LAX area have instituted the practice of adding
a “service charge” of 15% to 20% of the bill for banquets and other large
group events.  The service charge is typically listed as a line item on the
bill.  Some hotels pass a portion of the service charge to the workers who
actually performed the services, while other hotels retain the entire service
charge.  Currently, there is nothing illegal about this practice.  Since
hotels have instituted the practice of adding service charges to bills, many
hotel workers have reported a significant reduction in the gratuities they
receive from hotel guests.  Thus, many hotel customers reduce or eliminate
gratuities (tips) they would otherwise pay to service workers because they
assume that the workers receive the “service charges,” which are added to
their bills.

	By way of this ordinance, the City seeks to improve the welfare of service
workers at the LAX-area hotels by ensuring that they receive decent compensation
for the work they perform.  Accordingly, to the extent that LAX-area hotels
institute or continue the practice of charging their customers “service
charges,” they will be required by this ordinance to pass the entire service
charge on to the workers who actually performed the services for which the
service charges are billed.  Whereas the LAX-area hotels derive a distinct
benefit from their location near LAX, they have both the ability and
responsibility to support the local workforce by engaging in fair employment
practices.
