                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEFINITIONS. (§ 184.01)

  DEFINITIONS.	The following definitions shall apply to this
chapter:	A.	“City” means the City of Los Angeles.	B.	“Hotel” means a
residential building located within the area designated by ordinance as the
Gateway to LA (Century Corridor) Property Business Improvement District (Century
Corridor PBID) that is designated or used for lodging and other related services
for the public, and containing 50 or more guest rooms, or suites of rooms. 
“Hotel” also includes any contracted, leased, or sublet premises connected
to or operated in conjunction with the building’s purpose, or providing
services at the building.  If the Century Corridor PBID ceases to exist, the
boundaries at the time of dissolution shall remain in effect for purposes of
this article.	C.	“Hotel Employer” means a Person who owns, controls, and/or
operates a Hotel, or a Person who owns, controls, and/or operates any
contracted, leased, or sublet premises connected to or operated in conjunction
with the Hotel’s purpose, or a Person who provides services at the
Hotel.	D.	“Hotel Worker” means any individual (1) whose primary place of
employment is at a Hotel, (2) who is employed directly by the Hotel Employer or
by a Person who has contracted with the Hotel Employer to provide services at
the Hotel, and (3) who performs a service for which the Hotel Employer imposes a
Service Charge.  “Hotel Worker” does not include a managerial, supervisory,
or confidential employee.	E.	“Person” means an individual, corporation,
partnership, limited partnership, limited liability partnership, limited
liability company, business trust, estate, trust, association, joint venture,
agency, instrumentality, or any other legal or commercial entity, whether
domestic or foreign.	F.	“Service Charge” means all separately-designated
amounts collected by a Hotel Employer from customers that are for service by
Hotel Workers, or are described in such a way that customers might reasonably
believe that the amounts are for those services, including but not limited to
those charges designated on receipts under the term “service charge,”
“delivery charge,” or “porterage charge.”	G.	“Willful Violation”
means that the Hotel Employer deliberately failed or refused to comply with its
provisions of this article.
