                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

FILING FEES FOR ENVIRONMENTAL CLEARANCES. (§ 19.05)

  FILING FEES FOR ENVIRONMENTAL CLEARANCES.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 181,790, Eff. 8/18/11.)	A.	Fees.  For the processing of
each initial study prepared or environmental impact report (EIR) filed in
connection with a permit application, or for the processing of any supplemental
report or for the preparation of a general exemption pursuant to City CEQA
Guidelines, the following fees shall be paid to the appropriate City departments
at the time the permit application is filed or the supplemental report or
general exemption is prepared or processed:	1.	Environmental Clearances Except
EIRs:
  
    
      
        Type of Application
      
      
        Fee
      
    
    
      
        Categorical Exemption
      
      
        $81
      
    
    
      
        Environmental Assessment Form (EAF)/ Initial Study leading to Negative
Declaration or Mitigated Negative Declaration
      
      
        $2,280
      
    
    
      
        Mitigated Negative Declaration – Expanded
      
      
        $1,953
      
    
    
      
        Reconsideration of Prior Environmental Determination
      
      
        $703
      
    
    
      
        Publication Fee for Negative Declaration or Mitigated Negative
Declaration
      
      
        $946
      
    
  
	2.	Environmental Impact Reports:	(a)	Initial Deposit.	(1)	Non-Very High Fire
Hazard Severity Zone Areas
  
    
      
        Type of Application
      
      
        Fee
      
    
    
      
        Less Than 1 Acre in Area
      
      
        $7,156
      
    
    
      
        1 to Less Than 5 Acres in Area
      
      
        $11,520
      
    
    
      
        5 Acres or More in Area
      
      
        $11,696
      
    
  
	(2)	Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zone Areas
  
    
      
        Type of Application
      
      
        Fee
      
    
    
      
        Less Than 1 Acre in Area
      
      
        $14,710
      
    
    
      
        1 to Less Than 5 Acres in Area
      
      
        $21,448
      
    
    
      
        5 Acres or More in Area
      
      
        $32,770
      
    
  
	(b)	Supplemental EIR.  A fee of one-half the original filing deposit shall be
paid for the processing of any report supplemental to the environmental impact
report.	(c)	EIR Full Cost Recovery.  In addition to the fees set forth in this
section, fees shall be paid for the actual costs associated with the City’s
preparation and processing of an environmental impact report, and processing of
applications for all discretionary approvals associated with it.	For purposes of
this section, any discretionary approval related to the use of land where an
environmental impact report is required include the following: adjustment;
building line; coastal development permit; conditional use; parcel map; plan
approval; private street; adoption, amendment or repeal of a specific plan
pursuant to Subsection (b) of Government Code Section 65456; any approval which
is required to be consistent with a specific plan pursuant to Subsection (a) of
Government Code Section 65456; subdivision map, zone change, including zone
changes pursuant to Section 11.5.8 of this Code; and variance.  The actual
costs shall be offset by the fees collected pursuant to this chapter.	The
Planning Department shall calculate the actual costs and resultant fee, in
accordance with Chapter 35, Section 5.403(b)3. of Division 5 of the Los Angeles
Administrative Code and shall maintain appropriate accounting records of the
actual costs.  The Director of Planning shall resolve any dispute related to
the fee.  The Director shall exclude from consideration any cost incurred or
attributed to the processing of appeals.	The processing of an initial study is
not required as a prerequisite to the filing of an environmental impact
report.  For the purposes of this section, the definition of “Very High Fire
Hazard Severity Zone” contained in Section 57.25.01 of this Code shall
apply.	The requirements of this subsection shall not apply to the Harbor
Department.	B.	Child-Care Fees.  No fee shall be charged in connection with the
processing of an initial study or filing of an environmental impact report for
any child care facility or nursery school which is determined to be nonprofit,
including but not limited to parent cooperatives and facilities funded by a
governmental agency or owned or operated by a philanthropic institution, church,
or similar institution.  A facility funded by a governmental agency shall
indicate the primary current and anticipated source of funds.	Where any
uncertainty exists as to the nonprofit status of the facility, the applicant
shall file a copy of the articles of incorporation or an affidavit showing, to
the satisfaction of a Zoning Administrator, that the child care facility will be
nonprofit.
