                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

FEES FOR FLOOD HAZARD REPORTS AND COMPLIANCE CHECKS. (§ 19.07)

  FEES FOR FLOOD HAZARD REPORTS AND COMPLIANCE CHECKS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 182,237, Eff. 9/28/12.)	A.	Basic Review Fee.  Except for
services subject to the provisions of Subsection B. or C. of this Section, the
Bureau of Engineering shall charge and collect a fee of $265 to perform each of
the following services pertaining to Flood Hazard compliance:	1.	Flood Hazard
Compliance Check Fee.  Review to verify that a permitted project would or does
comply with the requirements of the Los Angeles Specific Plan for the Management
of Flood Hazards (Ordinance 172,081, as may be amended) and the National Flood
Insurance Program.	2.	Elevation Certificate Processing Fee.  Process an
Elevation Certificate for building permits located in floodplain zones, in
compliance with the requirements of the Los Angeles Specific Plan for the
Management of Flood Hazards (Ordinance 172,081, as may be amended) and the
National Flood Insurance Program.	3.	Floodproofing Certificate Processing. 
Process a Floodproofing Certificate for a commercial project or a non-single
family development proposed in a floodplain zone, in compliance with the
requirements of the Los Angeles Specific Plan for the Management of Flood
Hazards (Ordinance 172,081, as may be amended) and the National Flood Insurance
Program.	4.	Letter of Map Change/Conditional Letter of Map Change Processing. 
Process a Conditional Letter of Map Revision, Conditional Letter of Map
Amendment, Letter of Map Revisions, or Letter of Map Amendment.	B.	Reviews or
Services Requiring Additional Staff Time of 16 or Fewer Hours.  For all Bureau
of Engineering services identified in Subsection A. of this Section for which a
fee of $265 is charged, and which will require Bureau staff to review plans or
surveys, or take other action in addition to that normally required to
accomplish the task for which the $265 fee is charged, the Bureau shall charge
and collect a fee pursuant to the provisions of Section 61.14 of this Code,
except for reviews or services provided pursuant to the provisions of Subsection
C. of this Section.	C.	Reviews or Services Requiring Additional Staff Time of
More than 16 Hours.  For all Bureau of Engineering services identified in
Subsection A. of this Section for which a fee of $265 is charged, and which will
require Bureau staff to review plans or surveys, or take other action, and where
Bureau staff will be required to provide more than 16 hours of staff time in
addition to that normally required to accomplish the task for which the $265 fee
is charged, the Bureau shall charge and collect actual Bureau of Engineering
costs and a deposit for such costs as determined and collected pursuant to the
provisions of Section 61.15 of this Code.	D.	All Fees Owed Prior to Bureau
Action.  The Bureau of Engineering shall not issue any approval or decision
with respect to any matter for which this Section requires payment to the Bureau
until all monies owed pursuant to the provisions of this Section are paid.
