                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

FILING OF APPLICATIONS AND APPEALS. (§ 19.00)

  FILING OF APPLICATIONS AND APPEALS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,268, Eff. 7/1/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)

	A.	Filing Date.  An application or appeal shall be considered as filed
whenever it has been completed in accordance with the applicable rules and
regulations, has been submitted to the Department together with the required
filing fees, and a receipt for the filing fees has been issued.  If at any time
during the processing of an application it is discovered that an application has
been improperly prepared, or required pertinent information has not been
submitted in accordance with the previously established rules and regulations,
upon notification to the applicant by the appropriate officer or employee the
time limits specified within this ordinance shall be suspended and not continue
to run until the application has been rectified or the omitted information
furnished in a proper manner.

	B.	Time Limit – Appeals.  Notwithstanding any provisions of Articles 2, 3 or
4 of this chapter, whenever the final day for filing an appeal from any action,
decision or determination of the Director of Planning, Zoning Administrator,
Area Planning Commission or City Planning Commission falls on a Saturday, Sunday
or legal holiday, the time for filing an appeal shall be extended to the close
of business on the next succeeding working day, and the effective or final date
of any action, decision or determination shall be extended to the close of that
appeal period.  No appeal shall be accepted or in any way considered as
officially on file which is not presented in proper form and received within the
appeal period specified by other sections of this chapter or the extended period
specified above in this section.

	If in any individual case involving a 15-day appeal period, that appeal period
fails to include at least ten working days, then the appeal period shall be
extended as many days as the Director of Planning, Zoning Administrator, Area
Planning Commission, City Planning Commission or City Council determines are
necessary to include ten working days.

	C.	Place of Filing.  Whenever the provisions of Articles 2, 3 or 4 of this
chapter provide that applications, requests or appeals be filed with the City
Planning Commission, in the public office of the Department of City Planning,
those applications, requests or appeals may be filed in any of the branch
offices of the Department when designated for this purpose by the City Planning
Commission; that decision to be based upon considerations of need and available
facilities.

	D.	Whenever the provisions of this chapter provide that an applicant shall post
notice of a public hearing or meeting, the applicant shall file a declaration in
the appropriate public office prior to the date of the noticed public hearing or
meeting.  In this declaration the applicant shall declare, under penalty of
perjury, that notice has been posted in accordance with the applicable
provisions of this chapter.

	The Director of Planning shall have the authority to adopt guidelines
consistent with this ordinance for the posting of notices if the Director
determines that guidelines are necessary and appropriate.
