                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION AND INERT DEBRIS TRANSFER / PROCESSING OPERATIONS
AND FACILITY PERMITS. (§ 191.03)

  CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION AND INERT DEBRIS TRANSFER / PROCESSING OPERATIONS
AND FACILITY PERMITS.	A.	No construction and demolition and inert debris
transfer/processing operation or facility, inert processing, or wood debris
chipping and grinding facility shall be operated without first obtaining a
permit from the Department.  An application shall be filed with the Department
giving information as required by the Department and, if approved by the
Department, an annual permit may be issued upon payment of an annual inspection
fee as found in the Solid Waste and Recycled Materials Facility Fee table found
in Sec. 193.02.3.	B.	Construction and demolition and inert debris
transfer/processing operations and facilities shall be classified in accordance
with Title 14, California Code of Regulations, Division 7, Article 5.9, Section
17381 et seq.  In addition to the classification defined by tonnage and storage
limits on tonnages, each facility also must meet the applicable composition
requirements for the incoming materials, the amount of allowable residual
material to be disposed in a facilities specific classification, the level of
putrescible materials, and the received material origin as it relates to the
source separation (source separated and separated for reuse materials, and/or
separated at point of generation, i.e., no commingling) requirements for each
classification.  The composition tests are described in Title 14 California
Code of Regulations, Section 17381 to Section 17383 and are incorporated by
reference.	C.	All construction and demolition and inert debris
transfer/processing operations or facilities shall at the time of application,
submit to the Department all information that may be required to process its
application.	D.	Definition of construction and demolition and inert debris
transfer/processing operations or facilities for establishing fees:  The
calculation for the fee will be based on the tiered regulatory placement of the
operation or facility, as follows:	1.	Class 1 – Enforcement Agency
Notification	2.	Class 2 – Registration Permit	3.	Class 3 – Full Solid Waste
Facility Permit.
