                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SANITARY LANDFILL PERMITS. (§ 191.06)

  SANITARY LANDFILL PERMITS.	A.	No sanitary landfill shall be operated without
first obtaining a permit from the Department.  An application shall be filed
with the Department giving information as required by the Department.	B.	It
shall be unlawful to burn or incinerate solid waste or rubbish on private or
public property or upon sanitary landfills within the City of Los Angeles. 
This Subsection does not apply to transformation or conversion technology
facilities (e.g., waste-to-energy facilities that generate electricity through
the incineration of solid waste, or other transformation facilities as defined
by the California Public Resources Code) that have obtained all necessary
permits to operate.	C.	Prior to the issuance of a permit, the Department shall
investigate each particular site and shall require that all necessary measures
be taken to ensure that the operation of the sanitary landfill will not endanger
the public health, safety or welfare and that it conforms to requirements for
solid waste facilities found in the California Integrated Solid Waste Management
Act of 1989 commencing with Section 40000 of the Public Resources Code and the
California Code of Regulations Title 27, Division 2 or any successor
statutes.	D.	The definition of solid waste facilities for establishing fees is
as follows:	1.	Class A Landfill – A municipal solid waste landfill as defined
in Title 27, Division 2, Chapter 3 in the California Code of Regulations that
has been issued a solid waste facility permit.	2.	Class A-2 Landfill – A
municipal solid waste landfill as defined in Title 27, Division 2, Chapter 3 in
the California Code of Regulations that has been issued a solid waste facility
permit and due to specific site conditions requires special monitoring of both
the active and closed units of the landfill.	3.	Class B Landfill – A landfill
that has ceased accepting waste and that has closure documentation and is under
review and evaluation by the Department.	4.	Class C Landfill – A landfill that
has ceased accepting waste, has had closure documentation that has been approved
and is implementing the final closure plan.	5.	Class D Landfill – A landfill
that has ceased accepting waste and has completed closure in accordance with
applicable statutes, regulations and local ordinances in effect at the time and
meets either of the following conditions:	(a)	Environmental impacts such as
landfill gas or leachate are not being mitigated, either on or off site, to
protect public health and/or the environment.  At least monthly inspections by
the Department are required.	(b)	Environmental impacts such as landfill gas or
leachate are being mitigated on site to protect public health and/or the
environment.  However, control systems require at least monthly monitoring by
the Department due to the proximity of sensitive receptors, such as
structures.  Regular monitoring reports also may be required to be submitted to
the Department for review on a regular basis.	6.	Class E Landfill – A landfill
that has ceased accepting waste and has completed closure in accordance with
applicable statutes, regulations and local ordinances in effect at the time of
closure and meets either of the following conditions:	(a)	Environmental impacts
such as landfill gas or leachate are being mitigated, both on and off site, to
protect public health and/or the environment.  Closed landfills in this class
require landfill gas or leachate, or other monitoring reports to be submitted to
the Department for review on a regular basis.	(b)	Environmental impacts such as
landfill gas or leachate are being mitigated on site to protect public health
and/or the environment, however due to the proximity of sensitive receptors such
as structures, inspection is required more than quarterly, but less than
monthly.	7.	Class F Landfill – A landfill that has ceased accepting waste and
has completed closure in accordance with applicable statutes, regulations and
local ordinances in effect at the time.  Due to site conditions including, but
not limited to, minimal gas and leachate production, and distant proximity to
sensitive receptors, only quarterly inspections are required.	8.	Class G
Landfill – A landfill that is permitted to accept only inert solids or inert
waste materials including, but not limited to, soil and concrete, that does not
contain hazardous waste or soluble pollutants at concentrations in excess of
water-quality objectives established by a Regional Water Quality Control Board
pursuant to Division 7 (commencing with Section 13000) of the California Water
Code and does not contain significant quantities of decomposable solid
waste.	E.	A permit shall not extend to a date later than the last day of the
paid permit period.  The permit may be renewed annually by the Department, upon
the receipt of payment of fees contained in this ordinance.  Fees for a new
permit issued after the first day of July will be prorated on a monthly
basis.	F.	The Department shall enforce the California Integrated Solid Waste
Management Act of 1989 commencing with Section 40000 et seq. of the Public
Resources Code and the California Code of Regulations Title 14 and Title 27,
governing the sanitary landfill administrative, operational, and
closure/post-closure requirements.	G.	Each applicant of a facility shall pay an
annual inspection fee to the Department for the period between July 1, through
June 30, (inclusive) for each fiscal year as found in the Solid Waste and
Recycled Materials Facility Fee table found in Sec. 193.02.6.
