                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SOLID WASTE COLLECTION VEHICLE YARDS. (§ 191.10)

  SOLID WASTE COLLECTION VEHICLE YARDS.	A.	No solid waste collection vehicle
yard shall be operated without first obtaining a permit from the Department. 
Waste collection vehicles yards are defined as those facilities that store
vehicles or devices which collect solid waste at the point of origin and include
front, side or rear loading vehicles, and roll off container transportation
vehicles.  Vehicles that are not included in the definition of waste collection
vehicles are: transfer trucks, demolition trucks, dump trucks, and vehicles
which haul only recyclable materials from collection points to recycling
facilities.	B.	No solid waste vehicle storage yard shall be operated without
first obtaining a permit from the Department.  An application shall be filed
with the Department giving information as required by the Department and, if
approved by the Department, an annual permit may be issued upon payment in
advance of an annual inspection fee for each permitted site.  Permits shall not
extend to a later date than the first day of July next succeeding the date of
issuance.  Fees for a new permit issued after the first day of July will be
prorated on a monthly basis.	C.	All waste collection vehicle yards must be
maintained in a manner to minimize the health and safety hazards to collection
personnel and the public.  Failure to so maintain waste collection vehicle
yards shall constitute a violation of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code.	1.	Transfer / Processing Operations – Waste collection vehicle yards are
prohibited from the transfer and/or processing of solid waste, construction and
demolition debris, inert debris or greenwaste without first obtaining the
necessary approvals of the LEA, the local land use authority, or other approving
agencies.	2.	Entrance Signs – All waste collection vehicle yards shall have an
easily visible sign at the main entrance indicating the name of the operator and
operator’s telephone number.	3.	Site Security – The facility shall be
designed to discourage unauthorized access by persons and vehicles through the
use of either a perimeter barrier or topographic constraints.	4.	Vehicle Parking
– A refuse collection service operator must designate an off-street location
where all refuse collection vehicles will be parked when not in service, except
in an emergency.	5.	Visual Screening – The facility shall have appropriate
treatment of areas open to public view to create and maintain an aesthetically
acceptable appearance as approved by the local land use authority, or if none
exists, in consultation with the LEA.  Compliance with specific provisions
regarding visual screening in a local land use approval, such as conditional use
permits, or CEQA mitigation measures shall be considered compliance with this
standard.	6.	General Maintenance – All aspects of the operation shall be
maintained in a state of good repair. The operator shall implement a
preventative maintenance program to monitor and promptly repair or correct
deteriorated or defective conditions.  The operator shall provide adequate
housekeeping for the maintenance of facility equipment and shall minimize
accumulations of fuel drums, inoperable equipment, parts, tires, scrap, and
similar items.	7.	Cleanup – Waste collection yards and their equipment, boxes,
bins, and other types of containers shall be cleaned each operating day of all
loose materials and litter, in order to prevent the propagation or attraction of
flies, rodents, or other vectors. The entrance and exit shall be cleaned at a
frequency which prevents the tracking or off-site migration of waste
materials.	8.	Sanitation – The operator shall maintain all sanitary and
hand-washing facilities which may be required, by applicable state or local
requirements, in a reasonably clean and adequately supplied
condition.	9.	Scavenging / Salvaging – Each operation or facility shall meet
the following requirements:	(a)	Scavenging shall be prohibited;	(b)	Salvaging of
materials, such as metal, paper, glass and cardboard is permitted subject to
conditions established by the LEA, the local land use authority, or other
approving agencies.	(c)	Drugs, cosmetics, foods, beverages, hazardous wastes,
poisons, medical wastes, syringes, needles, pesticides and other materials
capable of causing public health or safety problems shall not be salvaged at
operations or facilities unless approved by the local health agency and the
LEA.	10.	Waste Removal – Waste materials shall not be stored in bins or
containers on site for more than 7 days in order to prevent the propagation or
attraction of flies, rodents or other vectors.  Waste materials may not be
deposited at the facility.  The LEA may impose an alternative frequency if
problems are created.	11.	Nuisance Control – Each operation and facility shall
be conducted and maintained to prevent the creation of a nuisance.  Compliance
with specific provisions regarding nuisance control in a local land use
approval, such as a conditional use permit or California Environmental Quality
Act mitigation measures, shall be considered compliance with this
standard.	12.	Vector Control – The operator shall take adequate steps to
control or prevent the propagation, harborage and attraction of flies, rodents,
or other vectors, and animals, and to minimize bird attraction.	13.	Dust Control
– The operator shall take adequate measures to minimize the creation,
emission, or accumulation of excessive dust and particulates, and prevent other
safety hazards to the public caused by obscured visibility.  One or more of the
following may be an indication that dust is excessive:	(a)	safety hazards due to
obscured visibility; or	(b)	irritation of the eyes; or	(c)	hampered
breathing;	(d)	migration of dust off-site.	14.	Litter Control – Litter at
waste collection vehicle yards shall be controlled, and routinely collected to
prevent safety hazards, nuisances and off-site migration of similar problems to
the greatest extent possible given existing weather conditions.	D.	All waste
collection vehicle yards must provide information, as required, on waste
collection vehicles to the Department or any authorized agent thereof.	E.	Waste
collection vehicle yards that require extraordinary compliance monitoring by the
Department, in excess of that performed for other facilities, as determined by
the Department, must submit to additional monitoring.	F.	Waste collection
vehicle yards that are in violation of this Section and fail to maintain their
facility or the public ingress and egress areas clean and in good repair after
notification may be cleaned up by the City at the owner’s expense.	G.	Waste
collection vehicle yards will be charged the amounts specified in the Solid
Waste and Recycled Materials Facility Fee table found in Sec. 193.02.7.
