                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

REFUNDS OF OVERPAYMENTS. (§ 21.07)

  REFUNDS OF OVERPAYMENTS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 181,051, Eff. 1/31/10.)	No refund of an overpayment of
taxes imposed by Article 1 and 1.5 of Chapter 2 of this Code shall be made
except under the following procedure	(a)	No claim for refund shall be allowed in
whole or in part unless filed by the person claiming the overpayment, or his
authorized agent on his behalf, with the City Clerk within a period of one year
from the date of the claimed overpayment, and all such claims for refund of
overpayment must be filed with the City Clerk on forms furnished by the City and
in the manner prescribed by the City.	(b)	Nothing in this section shall be
deemed to bring into being or validate any claim for refund arising from a cause
heretofore existent if such claim, whether filed or not, was or would have been
invalid because of the then existing statutory term, and nothing in this section
shall be deemed to validate, revive, restore or continue any claim for refund
heretofore filed and denied.	(c)	Insofar as the provisions of this section are
in conflict with the provisions of Sections 22.12, 22.13 of this Code, the
language of this section shall be construed to control and supersede the
language of said sections as to any such conflict.	(d)	The City shall pay
interest on the amount of each allowed claim for refund of overpayment of tax,
from the date of filing the claim for refund or, in the case of a payment under
protest or pursuant to a billing from the Office of Finance, from the date of
overpayment, until the date the overpayment is paid, during each calendar year
at the rate per month determined by dividing by 12 the sum of the average
Federal short-term rate during the months of July, August and September of the
prior calendar year.  Unless the monthly rate is evenly divisible by one-tenth
of a percentage point, it shall be rounded up to the next highest one-tenth of a
percentage point.
