                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

BUSINESS TAX REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE — FORM. (§ 21.08)

  BUSINESS TAX REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE — FORM.	(a)	Each business tax
registration certificate shall be prepared and issued by the Director of Finance
and shall state upon the face thereof the following:	1.	The name of the person
to whom issued.	2.	The classification of business engaged in and the section of
this article in which the business taxed is described.	3.	The address of the
location from which the business is conducted, and, where it is different, the
mailing address of the business taxed; or where no fixed place of business is
maintained, the mailing address of the person to whom the registration
certificate has been issued. The mailing address so appearing shall be the
address to which all notices required or authorized in this article shall be
sent unless the registrant shall request in writing that another address be used
for such purpose.	4.	The period for which the certificate has been
issued.	(b)	Each business tax registration certificate shall state on the back
thereof the following:	This business tax registration certificate signifies that
the person named on the face hereof has fulfilled the requirements of Article 1
of Chapter II of the Los Angeles Municipal Code by registering with the Director
of Finance for the purpose of paying business tax for the classification of
business for which this certificate is issued. This certificate does not
authorize the person to conduct any unlawful business or to conduct any lawful
business in an illegal manner or to conduct within the City of Los Angeles the
business for which this certificate has been issued without strictly complying
with all the provisions of the ordinances of said City, including but not
limited to those requiring a permit from any board, commission, department or
office of the City. THIS BUSINESS TAX REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE DOES NOT
CONSTITUTE A PERMIT. Any failure to comply with the requirements of Article 1 or
Article 1.11 of Chapter II of the Los Angeles Municipal Code shall constitute
grounds for suspension of this certificate. (Amended by Ord. No. 160,389, Eff.
10/21/85.)
