                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DELINQUENT DATES –INTEREST – PENALTIES. (§ 21.05)

  DELINQUENT DATES –  INTEREST – PENALTIES.
(Amended by Ord. No. 179,984, Eff. 8/3/08.)	(a)	Delinquent Dates:  Unless
otherwise specifically provided for in other provisions of this article, all
business taxes required to be paid shall be deemed delinquent if not paid on or
before or within the time prescribed in this article:	1.	Annual Business Taxes
– on or before the close of business on the last day of the month following
the month in which the tax is due.	2.	Quarterly Business Taxes – on or before
the close of business on the last day of the month in which the tax is
due.	3.	Monthly Business Taxes – on or before the close of business on the
last day of the month for which the tax is due.	4.	Daily Business Taxes – on
or before the close of business on each day for which the tax is
due.	5.	Business Taxes Unpaid When a Business Has Been Discontinued, Dissolved
or Otherwise Terminated – within 45 days of the termination of the
business.	6.	Deficiency Determinations – within 30 days from the date of
notification.	(b)	Penalties:	1.	Original Delinquency.  Any person who fails to
pay any tax required to be paid by this article, except deficiency
determinations made by the Director of Finance under Subsection (i) of Section
21.15 of this article, within the time required shall pay a penalty of 5% of the
amount of the tax in addition to the amount of the tax.	2.	Continued
Delinquency.  Any person who fails to pay any delinquent tax, except deficiency
determinations made by the Director of Finance under Subsection (i) of Section
21.15 of this article, on or before the last day of:	(i)	The first month in
which the tax first became delinquent, shall pay a second penalty of 5% of the
amount of the tax in addition to the amount of the tax and the 5% penalty first
imposed;	(ii)	The second month in which the tax first became delinquent, shall
pay a third penalty of 5% of the amount of the tax in addition to the amount of
the tax and the 10% in accumulated penalties previously imposed;	(iii)	The third
month in which the tax first became delinquent, shall pay a fourth penalty of 5%
of the amount of the tax in addition to the amount of the tax and the 15% in
accumulated penalties previously imposed.	(iv)	The fourth month in which the tax
first became delinquent, shall pay a fifth penalty of 20% of the amount of the
tax in addition to the amount of the tax and the 20% in accumulated penalties
previously imposed.	3.	Deficiency Determinations.  Any person who fails to pay
a deficiency determination within 30 days after the Director of Finance has
notified him or her of the amount of the deficiency, shall pay a penalty of 20%
of the amount of the deficiency determination in addition to the amount of the
deficiency determination.  Notice of a deficiency determination shall be given
in writing in the manner provided for the service of notices of assessment in
Subsection (b) of Section 21.16.	4.	Overpayment.  For the purpose of allowing
overpayments as credit against underpayments of the above-mentioned taxes,
whenever the overpayment has been received by the City within the three years
prior to an underpayment, or during any year for which the taxpayer, at the
request of the Director of Finance, has executed a waiver of the defense of the
statute of limitations with regard to any claim the City may have for business
tax, the Director of Finance, when making determinations of the amount of taxes
due the City, shall make an allowance of credit for any overpayment. 
Overpayments shall be applied to underpayments in the oldest period(s) before
applying to a later period(s).  Whenever an overpayment has been made prior to
an underpayment, no penalty or interest shall apply upon the amount of the
underpayment satisfied by the prior overpayment.	(c)	Negligence.  If the
Director of Finance determines that the nonpayment of any tax due under this
article or Article 1.6 is due to negligence or willful disregard of the
provisions of this article or Article 1.6, a penalty of 10% of the amount of the
tax shall be added to the tax due in addition to the penalties stated in
Subdivisions 1. and 2. of Subsection (b) of this section.  If the Director of
Finance determines that any part of the deficiency of a deficiency determination
is due to negligence or willful disregard of the provisions of this article or
Article 1.6, a penalty of 10% of the amount of the deficiency determination
shall be added in addition to the penalties stated in Subdivision 3. of
Subsection (b) of this section.	(d)	Fraud.  If the Director of Finance
determines that the nonpayment of any tax due under this article or Article 1.6
is due to fraud, a penalty of 25% of the amount of the tax shall be added, in
addition to the penalties stated in Subdivisions 1. and 2. of Subsection (b) of
this section.  If the Director of Finance determines that any part of the
deficiency determination is due to fraud, a penalty of 25% of the amount of the
deficiency determination shall be added, in addition to the penalties stated in
Subdivision 3. of Subsection (b) of this section.	(e)	Interest.  In addition to
the penalties imposed, any person who fails to pay any tax required to be paid
by this article or Articles 1.1, 1.3, 1.7, or 1.15 of this chapter shall pay
interest on the amount of the tax, exclusive of any penalty, from the date on
which the tax first became delinquent until the date it is paid, during each
calendar year at the rate per month, or fraction of the month, determined by
dividing by 12 the sum of the average Federal short-term rate during the months
of July, August and September of the prior calendar year plus three percentage
points.  Unless the monthly rate is evenly divisible by one-tenth of a
percentage point, it shall be rounded up to the next highest one-tenth of a
percentage point.  Interest shall run during any period of time for which the
Director of Finance has granted an extension of time.  Interest required by any
of the provisions of this section shall not be subject to waiver or compromise
other than in accordance with the provisions of Subsections (f) and (g) of
Section 21.15 of this article, or as the Council may direct.	(f)	Penalties and
Interest Merge With Tax For Collection Purposes.  For collection purposes only,
every penalty imposed and the interest that is accrued under the provisions of
this section shall become a part of the tax required to be paid.
