                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ADJUSTMENTS AND REFUNDS. (§ 21.14.7)

  ADJUSTMENTS AND REFUNDS.	(a)	Requests for adjustments involving imposition of
this tax may be filed with the Director of Finance. Upon sufficient evidence of
error in the computation of the tax the Director of Finance or a designee of the
Director of Finance shall cause the tax to be recalculated, and shall so advise
the Los Angeles County Tax Collector or other appropriate official.	(b)	Whenever
it is alleged that the amount of any tax has been overpaid or paid more than
once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the City
under this article, the refund procedure shall be as follows:	1.	No claim for
refund of tax payment shall be allowed in whole or in part unless filed with the
Director of Finance within a period of three years from the date of the claimed
overpayment. All such claims for refund of the amount of the overpayment must be
filed on forms furnished, and in the manner prescribed, by the Director of
Finance. Refunds may be made from the Special Fire Safety and Paramedic
Communications Equipment Tax Fund.	2.	In the event the Director of Finance or
the City Council denies the claim, the Director of Finance shall notify the
claimant pursuant to California Government Code Section 913.	(c)	The Director of
Finance shall have the same power to compromise claims involving the special
tax, and the same power to accept and record underpayments or overpayments of
such tax, as granted to the Director of Finance under Subsections (f) and (g) of
Section 21.15 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code with respect to Business Taxes.
The Director of Finance shall have the same authority to make refunds of this
tax as is provided in Sections 22.12 and 22.13 of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code.	(d)	If the County of Los Angeles does not collect any tax due under this
article, then the Director of Finance shall have the power and duty to enforce
all of the provisions of this article. In such cases the Director of Finance,
for taxes not paid, may make an assessment against the owner of a parcel and
improvements, or against the owner of improvements on another’s land, in the
manner provided in Section 21.16 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code. Any unpaid
tax due under this article shall be subject to Sections 21.19, 21.20, and 21.21
of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.	(e)	The special tax shall be due in two equal
installments in accordance with the collection procedures of the Los Angeles
County Tax Collector with the first installment due November 1, and the second
installment due the next succeeding February 1, in each fiscal year. The owner
of the land, land and improvements, or improvements, at the time set forth in
California Revenue and Taxation Code Sections 405 and 2192 for each fiscal year,
shall have a personal obligation to the City of Los Angeles until the tax is
paid for each fiscal year.	(f)	The Director of Finance may prepare a
questionnaire to be served on the owner of a parcel or improvements subject to
the tax imposed by this article. The questionnaire may request information which
would be useful to the Director of Finance in the enforcement or administration
of this article. The failure by an owner to provide the information requested
within 30 days of receipt of the request, or the act of an owner in knowingly
providing false information, shall be a misdemeanor.	(g)	In determining the
gross square footage area of improvements the Director of Finance may use County
Assessor’s records, City records, questionnaires and any other records the
Director of Finance deems reliable.
