                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

COMMUNICATIONS USERS TAX. (§ 21.1.3)

  COMMUNICATIONS USERS TAX.
	(Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 179,686*, Eff. 3/15/08.)	(a)	There is
hereby imposed a tax upon every Person with a billing or service address in the
City of Los Angeles who uses Communications Services, including services for
intrastate, interstate or international Communications Services, to the extent
permitted by state and federal law.  The tax imposed by this section shall be
at the rate of nine percent of the charges made for those Communications
Services and shall be paid by the Person paying for those services.  However,
as to the charges made for services to any independent telemarketing agency, as
defined in Section 21.47(b) of this Code, incurred solely in performing the
functions of an independent telemarketing agency, the tax imposed by this
section shall be at the rate of five percent of the charges made for those
services.	(b)	The tax imposed in this section shall be collected from the
Service User by the Person providing the Communications Services.  The amount
of tax collected from the 26th day of each Month through the 25th day of the
following Month shall be remitted to the Director of Finance on or before the
26th day of the following Month, or, at the option of the Person required to
collect and remit the tax, an estimated amount of tax collected, measured by the
billings of the previous Month, shall be remitted to the Director of Finance on
or before the 20th day of each Month.	(c)	Charges subject to the include, but
are not limited to, the following: connection, reconnection, termination,
movement, or change of telecommunications services; late payment fees; detailed
billing; voice mail and other messaging services; directory assistance; access
and line charges; universal service charges; and regulatory, administrative and
other cost recovery charges.	(d)	Exemptions.  Except as otherwise provided in
this article, Communications Services shall include all Communications Services
for which there is a charge, regardless of the means or technology used to
provide those services.  Notwithstanding the provisions of Subsection (a), the
tax imposed under this section shall not be imposed upon any Person for using
Communications Services under the circumstances set forth below:	1.	News
services.  No tax shall be imposed under this section, except with respect to
local telephone service, on any payment received from any Person for services
used in the collection of news for the public press, or a news ticker service
furnishing a general news service similar to that of the public press, or radio
broadcasting, or in the dissemination of news through the public press, or a
news ticker service furnishing a general news service similar to that of the
public press, or by means of radio broadcasting, if the charge for that service
is billed in writing to that Person.	2.	International, etc., organizations.  No
tax shall be imposed under this section on any payment received for services
furnished to a public international organization in which the United States
participates pursuant to treaty or Act of Congress, or to the American National
Red Cross.	3.	Servicemen in combat zone.  No tax shall be imposed under this
section on any payment received for any toll telephone service, which originates
within a combat zone, as defined in Section 112 of Title 26 of the United States
Code, from a member of the Armed Forces of the United States performing service
in the combat zone, as determined under Section 112 of Title 26 of the United
States Code.	4.	Items otherwise taxed.  Only one payment of tax under this
section shall be required with respect to the tax on any service.	5.	Common
carriers and communications companies.  No tax shall be imposed under this
section on the amount paid for any Communications Services to the extent that
the amount so paid is for use by a common carrier, telephone or telegraph
company, or radio broadcasting station or network in the conduct of its
business.	6.	Installation charges.  No tax shall be imposed under this section
on any amount paid for the installation of any instrument, wire, pole,
switchboard, apparatus, or equipment as is properly attributable to the
installation.	7.	Nonprofit hospitals.  No tax shall be imposed under this
section on any amount paid by a nonprofit hospital for services furnished to
that organization.  For purposes of this exemption, the term “nonprofit
hospital” means a hospital referred to in Section 170(b)(1)(A)(iii) of Title
26 of the United States Code, which is exempt from federal income tax under
Section 501(a) of Title 26 of the United States Code.	8.	State and local
governments.  No tax shall be imposed under this section upon any payment
received for services or facilities furnished to the government of any State, or
any of its political subdivisions, or the District of Columbia.	9.	Nonprofit
educational organizations.  No tax shall be imposed under this section on any
amount paid by a nonprofit educational organization for services or facilities
furnished to that organization.  For purposes of this exemption, the term
“nonprofit educational organization” means an educational organization
described in Section 170(b)(1)(A)(ii) of Title 26 of the United States Code,
which is exempt from federal income tax under Section 501(a) of Title 26 of the
United States Code.  The term also includes a school operated as an activity of
an organization described in Section 501(c)(3) of Title 26 of the United States
Code, which is exempt from federal income tax under Section 501(a) of Title 26
of the United States Code, if that school normally maintains a regular facility
and curriculum and normally has a regularly enrolled body of pupils or students
in attendance at the place where its educational activities are regularly
carried on.	(e)	To prevent actual multiple taxation of any Communications
Services that are subject to tax under Subsection (a) of this section, any
Service User, upon proof that the Service User owed and has paid a tax in
another taxing jurisdiction on the Communications Services, shall be allowed a
credit against the tax imposed in Subsection (a) to the extent of the amount of
the tax properly due and paid in the other taxing jurisdiction.  However, no
credit may be allowed for any tax paid to another taxing jurisdiction on any
call to the extent that the call may not, under the Constitution and statutes of
the United States, be made the subject of taxation by the other taxing
jurisdiction.  Nor shall the amount of credit exceed the tax owed to the City
under this section.	(f)	Any person claiming to be an independent telemarketing
agency, which has charges subject to tax at the five percent rate, shall file an
application for rate adjustment with the Director of Finance.  This application
shall be made on forms provided by the Director of Finance and shall recite
facts under oath which qualify the applicant for the five percent tax rate. 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, the five percent rate shall
apply only to charges for services that were necessarily incurred solely and
exclusively for telemarketing activities.  The burden of maintaining records
and establishing that this charge is subject to tax at the five percent rate
shall be on the applicant.  Charges for all other services shall be subject to
tax at the nine percent rate.	(g)	For purposes of imposing a tax or establishing
a duty to collect and remit a tax under this section, “substantial nexus”
and “minimum contacts” shall be construed broadly in favor of the
imposition, collection and/or remittance of the communications users tax to the
fullest extent permitted by state and federal law, and as it may change from
time to time by judicial interpretation or by statutory enactment.  Any
Communications Services used by a Person with a service or billing address in
the City shall be subject to a rebuttable presumption that “substantial nexus
/ minimum contacts” exists for purposes of imposing a tax, or establishing a
duty to collect and remit a tax, under this section.  For communications
services for which there is no billing address or primary physical location for
the provision of services, the service address shall mean the point of sale of
the services.	(h)	If a non-taxable service and a taxable service are billed
together under a single charge, the entire charge shall be deemed taxable unless
the service supplier or taxpayer reasonably identifies actual charges for
services not subject to the tax.  The service supplier or taxpayer seeking a
reduction has the burden of proving the proper valuation and apportionment of
taxable and non-taxable charges based upon books and records that are kept in
the regular course of business and in a manner consistent with generally
accepted accounting principles.* Note: Pursuant to the passage of Proposition S
in a Special Election held on February 5, 2008, Ordinance No. 179,686 was
adopted by the Council of the City of Los Angeles at its meeting of March 5,
2008.
