                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

CONFIDENTIAL CHARACTER OF INFORMATION OBTAINED– DISCLOSURE UNLAWFUL. (§
21.17)

  CONFIDENTIAL CHARACTER OF INFORMATION OBTAINED  – DISCLOSURE UNLAWFUL.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 180,380, Eff. 1/5/09.)	(a)	It shall be unlawful for the
Director of Finance or any person having an administrative duty under the
provisions of this Article or Article 1.6 to make known in any manner whatever
the business affairs and operations of, or the nature, amount or source of
income, profits, losses, expenditures, net worth, or any particular thereof, or
any other information set forth in any statement or return or obtained by an
investigation of records and equipment of, any person required to obtain a
business tax registration certificate or sales or use tax permit, or pay
business, sales or use tax or any other person visited or examined in the
discharge of official duty, or to permit any statement or return, or copy of
either, or any book containing any abstract or particulars thereof to be seen or
examined by any person.	(b)	Nothing in this section shall be construed to
prevent:	1.	the disclosure of information to, or the examination of records and
equipment by, another City official or employee or a member of the Board of
Review for the sole purpose of administering or enforcing any provision of this
article or Article 1.6;	2.	the disclosure of information to, or the examination
of records by federal or state officials, or the tax officials of another city
or county, or city and county, if a reciprocal arrangement exists; or to a grand
jury;	3.	the disclosure of information and results of examination of records of
a particular taxpayer, or relating to a particular taxpayer, with respect to any
proceeding in a court of law or before an administrative body in which the
existence or amount of any business, sales or use tax liability of the
particular taxpayer to the City of Los Angeles is relevant and material and the
particular taxpayer is a party to the proceeding, including but not limited to
proceedings before any Board or Commission as set forth in Municipal Code
section 22.02;	4.	the disclosure after the filing of a written request to that
effect, to the taxpayer himself, or to his successors, receivers, trustees,
executors, administrators, assignees and guarantors, if directly interested, of
information as to the items included in the measure of any paid tax, any unpaid
tax or amounts of tax required to be collected, interest and penalties; further
provided, however, that the City Attorney approves each such disclosure and that
the Director of Finance may refuse to make any disclosure referred to in this
paragraph when in his opinion the public interest would suffer thereby;	5.	the
disclosure of the names and addresses of persons to whom registration
certificates or sales tax and use tax permits have been issued;	6.	the
disclosure of such information as may be necessary to the City Council in order
to permit it to be fully advised as to the facts when a taxpayer files a claim
for refund of business, sales or use taxes, or submits an offer of compromise
with regard to a claim for refund of business, sales or use taxes, or submits an
offer of compromise with regard to a claim asserted against him by the City for
business, sales or use taxes, or where the existence or amount of business,
sales, or use taxes are otherwise relevant to the determination of a matter
required to be submitted to the City Council under the City of Los Angeles
Charter, the Los Angeles Municipal Code, or the Los Angeles Administrative
Code;	7.	the disclosure of information to, or the examination of records by,
contractors or employees of contractors with whom the City of Los Angeles has
contracted to assist the City of Los Angeles for the sole purpose of
administering or enforcing any provision of this Article or Article 1.6, if the
contract requires the persons granted access to such information or records to
abide by the confidentiality requirements of this Section, and if the City
Council has approved the award and execution of such contract;	8.	the disclosure
of information to, or the examination of records by, purchasers of accounts
receivable pursuant to Los Angeles Administrative Code section 5.186, or the
disclosure to any employees of such purchasers of accounts receivable, if the
purchase agreement requires the persons granted access to such information or
records to abide by the confidentiality requirements of this Section;	9.	the
disclosure of the identity of any particular taxpayer with delinquent business,
sales, or use taxes and the type and amount of the delinquent business, sales,
or use tax liability of that taxpayer, and the publication of such information
at the discretion of the Office of Finance pursuant to Los Angeles Municipal
Code section 21.15(m);	10.	the disclosure of information when compelled by an
order of court or other judicial process; and	11.	the disclosure of statistical
or cumulative information when the disclosure does not identify any particular
taxpayer or reveal information in a manner that could identify a particular
taxpayer.
