                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

REPORTING AND REMITTING. (§ 21.15.7)

  REPORTING AND REMITTING.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 176,004, Eff. 7/7/04, Oper. 12/1/04.)	Each operator shall,
on or before the 25th day of each calendar month, make a statement to the
Director of Finance of the total fees charged and received, and the amount of
tax collected for parking occupancies during the preceding calendar month.  At
the time the statement is filed, the full amount of the tax collected, and tax
not collected but required to be collected, shall be remitted to the Director of
Finance.  Except as provided in Sec. 21.15.8, an operator shall not be required
to remit to the Director of Finance any amount of tax not collected and not
required to be collected from an occupant.  All taxes collected and required to
be collected by operators pursuant to this article shall be held in trust for
the account of the City until payment thereof is made to the City.  The full
amount of tax due, whether collected or owed but not collected, under this
Article shall be deemed a debt owed to the City by the operator and shall be
discharged only upon payment to the City.	Statements and payments are due
immediately upon cessation of business for any reason, at which time the
operator shall furnish the Director of Finance with the name and address of the
successor operator.	Notwithstanding the foregoing, the amount of taxes required
to be remitted by an operator to the City pursuant to this Section 21.15.7 shall
be automatically offset by the City in an amount equal to special taxes levied,
collected and satisfied, by a City Community Tax District, formed pursuant to
Division 6, Chapter 10 of the Los Angeles Administrative Code, against the
operator’s property during the preceding calendar month.  The sum of the
operator’s monthly parking occupancy tax remittance to the City and the
operator’s monthly special tax payment shall equal the amount of parking
occupancy tax required to be collected pursuant to this article.  The City may
request from the applicable operator or the legislative body of the Community
Taxing District documentation or other information necessary to substantiate the
special tax payment.  (Para. Added by Ord. No. 179,937, Eff. 7/14/08.)	The
automatic tax offset of the parking occupancy taxes due pursuant to this article
shall not exceed the rate of parking occupancy tax levied by the City, and no
tax offset shall be provided for the amount of special taxes paid by an operator
in excess of the rate of parking occupancy tax levied by the City.  (Para.
Added by Ord. No. 179,937, Eff. 7/14/08.)
