                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEFINITIONS. (§ 21.15.1)

  DEFINITIONS.
	(Added by Ord. No. 165,949, Eff. 7/5/90.)

	Except where the context otherwise requires, the definitions given in this
section shall govern the construction of this article.

	(a)	Motor Vehicle.  “Motor vehicle” means every self-propelled vehicle
operated or suitable for operation on the highway.

	(b)	Occupancy.  “Occupancy” means the use or possession or the right to
the use or possession of any space for the parking of a motor vehicle or any
other purpose in a parking facility.

	(c)	Occupant.  “Occupant” means a person who, for a consideration, uses,
possesses or has the right to use or possess any space for the parking of a
motor vehicle in a parking facility under any lease, concession, permit, right
of access, license to use or other agreement or otherwise, whether voluntarily
or involuntarily. Occupant shall be deemed to include any person required to pay
any valet or service labor charge in connection with the parking of motor
vehicles on public or private property and any person required to pay a charge
for the occupancy of parking space by another person by means of validation or
otherwise.

	(d)	Operator.  “Operator” means the person who conducts a parking
facility, whether in the capacity of owner, lessee, mortgagee in possession,
licensee, valet or other service supplier or any other capacity. When the
operator performs his functions through a managing agent of any type or
character other than an employee, the managing agent shall also be deemed an
operator for purposes of this article and shall have the same duties and
liabilities as his principal. When the managing agent collects parking fees and
tax on behalf of his principal and deposits the same into the principal’s
account in a financial institution, such principal shall be responsible for
reporting and remitting the tax to the City. It shall be the duty of the
managing agent to provide the Director of Finance with the name and address of
each principal who will be responsible for reporting and remitting the tax to
the City. Compliance with the provisions of this article by either the principal
or the managing agent shall be considered to be compliance by both. A person who
qualifies as an operator shall not, by reason of being exempt from the tax
imposed in this article, be exempt from the duties and liabilities of an
operator imposed under this article.

	(e)	Parking Meter.  “Parking meter” means any device which, when the
recording device thereof is set in motion, or immediately following the deposit
of any coin, shall register the period of time that any motor vehicle may be
parked adjacent thereto.

	(f)	Parking Facility.  “Parking facility” means any outdoor space or
uncovered plot, place, street, lot, parcel, yard or enclosure, or any portion
thereof, or any building or structure, or any portion thereof, where or in which
a motor vehicle may be parked, stored, housed or kept, for which any charge is
made.

	(g)	Person.  “Person” means any natural person, partnership, joint
venture, joint stock company, corporation, estate, trust, business trust,
receiver, administrator, executor, assignee, trustee in bankruptcy, firm,
company, association, club, syndicate, society, municipal corporation, the State
of California, political subdivision of the State of California, the United
States, instrumentality of the United States, or any group or combination acting
as a unit, whether mutual, cooperative, fraternal, nonprofit or otherwise.

	(h)	Parking Fee.  “Parking fee” means the consideration charged, whether
or not received, for the occupancy or use of space in a parking facility valued
in money, whether received in money, goods, labor or otherwise, including all
receipts, cash, credits and property and services of any kind or nature, without
any deduction therefrom. The parking fee shall be deemed to include the total
charges required to be paid by an occupant, including, but not limited to, any
valet or service labor charge in connection with the use or occupancy of parking
space on public or private property. Nothing shall be construed to mean that a
parking fee is charged to the occupant of space in a parking facility for the
sale of petroleum products, automobile parts or other tangible personal
property, the rendering of services, including car wash services, totally
unconnected with the use or occupancy of parking space, or where parking space
is provided to the occupant as a compliment from the operator and where no
consideration is charged to or received from any other person.
