                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ADDITIONAL POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR OF FINANCE, ETC. (§ 21.1.9)

  ADDITIONAL POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR OF FINANCE, ETC.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 179,686*, Eff. 3/15/08.)	(a)	The Director of Finance shall
have the power and duty, and is hereby directed to enforce all of the provisions
of this article.	(b)	In administering and enforcing the provisions of this
article, the Director of Finance shall have the same powers and duties with
respect to collecting the tax provided in this article as he or she has under
Section 21.15 of this chapter with respect to collecting the Business
Tax.	(c)	The provisions of Sections 21.17, 21.20 and 21.21 of this chapter shall
apply to the administration and collection of the tax imposed under the
provisions of this article in the same manner as they apply to the
administration and collection of the Business Tax.	(d)	The Director of Finance
may, from time to time, issue and disseminate administrative agreements or
rulings identifying those services or Persons that are subject to the
requirements imposed by this article, deferring implementation or enforcement of
requirements imposed by this article or interpreting the provisions of this
article.  These administrative rulings shall be consistent with federal, state
and local law.  To the extent that the Director of Finance, or the City
Attorney pursuant to Section 21.31, determines that the tax imposed under this
article shall not be collected in full for any period of time from any
particular service suppliers or Service Users, that determination shall be
considered an exercise of the Director’s discretion to settle disputes and
shall not constitute a change in taxing methodology for purposes of Government
Code section 53750 or otherwise.  Neither the Director of Finance nor the City
Attorney is authorized to amend the City’s methodology for purposes of
Government Code section 53750 and the City does not waive or abrogate its
ability to impose the communications users tax in full as a result of
promulgating administrative rulings or entering into agreements.* Note: Pursuant
to the passage of Proposition S in a Special Election held on February 5, 2008,
Ordinance No. 179,686 was adopted by the Council of the City of Los Angeles at
its meeting of March 5, 2008.
