                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ELECTRICITY USERS TAX. (§ 21.1.4)

  ELECTRICITY USERS TAX.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 142,333, Eff. 9/30/71, Oper. 10/1/71.)	(a)	There is hereby
imposed a tax upon every person in the City of Los Angeles using electrical
energy in the City of Los Angeles. The tax imposed  by this section shall be at
the rate of 10 percent of the charges made for such energy and shall be paid by
the person paying for such energy, provided, however, that commercial or
industrial users of electrical energy shall be subject to tax and a tax is
hereby imposed upon them at the rate of 12.5 percent of the charges made for
such energy, but  as to any non-profit educational institution, as defined in
Subdivision 3 of Subsection (c) of Section 21.190 of this Code, the tax imposed
by this section shall be at the rate of 10 percent of the charges made for such
energy.  (Second Sentence Amended by Ord. No. 171,436, Eff. 1/10/97.) 
“Charges” as used in this section, shall include charges made for  (1) 
metered energy, and  (2)  minimum charges for service, including customer
charges, service charges, demand charges, standby charges, and annual and
monthly charges.	The term “commercial or industrial users” as used in this
section, is intended to include, but shall not be limited to, any person who
qualifies as a “commercial or industrial” consumer of electrical energy
within the electric rate schedules of the Department of Water and Power of the
City of Los Angeles or the tariff schedules of the Southern California Edison
company, provided however, a user of electrical energy shall not be considered a
“commercial or industrial user” of any electrical energy supplied to a
single family accommodation separately metered or for energy to two or more
individual family accommodations supplied as a unit, upon application under the
provisions of the Department’s Domestic Service Schedule D–1, devoted
primarily to domestic, residential, household and related purposes, as
distinguished from commercial, professional, and industrial purposes.	(b)	As
used in this section, the term “using electrical energy” shall not be
construed to mean that storage of such energy by a person in a battery owned or
possessed by him for use in an automobile or other machinery or device apart
from the premises upon which the energy was received, provided however, that the
term shall include the receiving of such energy for the purpose of using it in
the charging of batteries, nor shall the term include the mere receiving of such
energy by an electric public utility or government agency at a point within the
City of Los Angeles for resale.  (Amended by Ord. No. 135,276, Eff.
10/30/67.)	(c)	The tax imposed in this section shall be collected from the
service user by the person supplying such energy. The amount of tax collected
from the 26th day of each month through the 25th day of the following month
shall be remitted to the Director of Finance on or before the 26th day of such
following month, or, at the option of the person required to collect and remit
the tax, an estimated amount of tax collected in each month shall be remitted to
the Director of Finance on or before the 26th day of such month.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 156,573, Eff. 5/10/82)
