                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SALE OF REAL PROPERTY. (§ 21.193)

  SALE OF REAL PROPERTY.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)	For every person engaged in the
business of developing and selling real property in which the person has equity
or title, the tax shall be $165.60 per year or fractional part for the first
$60,000.00 or less of gross receipts, plus $2.76 per year for each additional
$1,000.00 of gross receipts or fractional part in excess of $60,000.00.	1.	Real
Property Seller means a person engaged in the business of developing and selling
real property in which the person has equity or title.	2.	A person shall be
deemed to be engaged in the business of Real Property Sales if the
person:	(i)	As a subdivider, as that term is defined in Section 11508 of the
Business and Professions Code, has recorded a subdivision map respecting the
property sold in accordance with the Subdivision Map Act of California,
provided, however, that a person filing or joining in the filing of a
subdivision map for the sole purpose of accomplishing a street vacation shall
not be considered a subdivider; or	(ii)	Has prior to sale, divided the property
held pursuant to the “lot-split” regulations of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code (commencing at Section 17.50); or	(iii)	Sells two or more pieces of real
property within a calendar year and upon each of which a building was
constructed or caused to be constructed by the seller, provided the sales were
within three years of the recordation by anyone of a subdivision map respecting
the property sold pursuant to the Subdivision Map Act; or	(iv)	Sells any real
property upon which he has constructed or caused to be constructed an apartment
house or commercial building, provided the sale is either prior to or within
three years after the issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy or its equivalent
respecting the property sold.	3.	For purposes of this section, the term “gross
receipts” shall not include:	(i)	proceeds realized from the sale of
property:	a.	through foreclosure; or	b.	to an agency proposing to take the land
under eminent domain proceedings; or	c.	through the exercise of a power of sale
contained in a deed of trust or mortgage; or	d.	through bankruptcy;
or	e.	through assignment for the benefit of creditors; or 	f.	through court
order; or	(ii)	the unpaid balance on the date of sale of any encumbrance of
record upon the property;	(iii)	existing prior to the sale and remaining in
existence between the same parties following the sale;	(iv)	existing of record
180 days prior to the date of sale; or	(v)	existing prior to the sale and with
respect to which a deficiency judgment is prohibited under the provisions of
California Code of Civil Procedure Section 580b, whether or not it is
extinguished by reason of the sale.	4.	No person shall engage in this business
or perform any act required to be taxed under this section during any tax period
without first obtaining a registration certificate and paying a tax in the
minimum amount of $165.00.	5.	At the close of each tax period, the person shall
file a statement with the Director of Finance setting forth the amount of gross
receipts derived from the business for that period, and shall pay on or before
the last day of February in the next subsequent tax period any additional tax
that may be due under this article for the preceding expired tax period.	6.	In
the event the business is discontinued, dissolved or otherwise terminated before
the close of the tax period, the required statement of gross receipts shall then
be filed, and any additional tax due under this section shall be paid on or
before the close of business on the last day of the month following the month in
which discontinuance, dissolution or termination occurred.	7.	When any
person’s activities occurring both within and without the City contribute to
the production of receipts from the business taxed under this section, the
person’s gross receipts shall be apportioned in a manner that is fairly
calculated to determine the amount of gross receipts derived from or
attributable to engaging in business in the City.  The apportionment shall be
made on the basis of payroll, value and situs of tangible property, general
expense, or by reference to any of these or other factors, or by another method
of apportionment that will fairly determine the amount of gross receipts derived
from or attributable to engaging in business in the City.  In the absence of
substantial information to the contrary, 80% of the total gross receipts shall
be deemed attributable to activities conducted in the jurisdiction in which the
subject real property is located and 20% of the total gross receipts shall be
deemed attributable to activities conducted in the jurisdiction in which is
located a place or premises, other than the subject real property, from which
business activities are conducted.  The percentages may be increased or
decreased by the Director of Finance where after consideration of all of the
facts, circumstances warrant the deviation.	8.	The sale of any real property,
which would not subject the owner to taxation under the provisions of this
section, shall not subject the owner to taxation under the provisions of Section
21.49, Professions and Occupations, of this article.
