                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEFINITIONS. (§ 21.1.1)

  DEFINITIONS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 179,686*, Eff. 3/15/08.)

	The following words and phrases whenever used in this article shall be
construed as defined in this section:

	(a)	“Ancillary Telecommunications Services” shall mean services that are
associated with or incidental to the provision, use or enjoyment of
Communications Services.

	(b)	“Communications Services” shall mean the transmission, conveyance, or
routing of voice, audio, video communications, data or any other communications
information or signals to a point, or between or among points, whatever the
technology used, and whether or not that information is transmitted through
interconnected service with the public switched network, or through fiber optic,
coaxial cable, power line transmission, broadband, digital subscriber line or
other wireless transmission.  The term “Communications Services” includes
transmission, conveyance, or routing in which computer processing applications
are used to act on the form, code or protocol of the content for purposes of
transmission, conveyance or routing without regard to whether those services are
referred to as voice over internet protocol (VoIP) services or are classified by
the Federal Communications Commission as enhanced or value added, and includes
video and/or data services that are functionally integrated with
“Communications Services”.  “Communications Services” include, but are
not limited to the following services, regardless of the manner or basis on
which those services are calculated or billed: central office and custom calling
features (including but not limited to call waiting, call forwarding, caller
identification and three-way calling); local number portability; text messaging;
instant messaging; Ancillary Telecommunications Services; prepaid and post-paid
telecommunications services (including but not limited to prepaid calling
cards); mobile telecommunications services; Private Communications Services;
paging services; and 800 services (or any other toll-free numbers designated by
the Federal Communications Commission).  “Communications Services” does not
include either digital downloads, such as downloads of books, music, ringtones,
games and similar digital products, or that portion of cable or video television
services subject to a cable or video television franchise fee.

	(c)	“Month” shall mean a calendar month.

	(d)	“Person” shall mean all individuals, domestic and foreign corporations,
associations, syndicates, joint stock companies, partnerships of every kind,
joint ventures, clubs, Massachusetts businesses or common law trusts, societies,
and, shall include municipal corporations.

	(e)	“Private Communications Services” shall mean any dedicated
Communications Services that entitle the user to the exclusive or priority use
of communications channels.

	(f)	“Service User” shall mean a Person required to pay a tax imposed under
the provisions of this article.

* Note: Pursuant to the passage of Proposition S in a Special Election held on
February 5, 2008, Ordinance No. 179,686 was adopted by the Council of the City
of Los Angeles at its meeting of March 5, 2008.
