                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

MONEY LENDERS. (§ 21.108)

  MONEY LENDERS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)	(a)	Subject to the exceptions
stated here, for each person engaged in the business of lending money, advancing
credit or lending credit, or arranging for the loan of money or advancing of
credit or lending of credit, for and on his or her own behalf or on behalf of
any other person as principal, agent or broker, whether security of any kind is
taken for the loan or advance or not, or purchasing or discounting or arranging
for the purchase or discounting of any obligation or evidence of money due or to
become due, whether the obligation or evidence is secured or guaranteed or not,
and whether the person so purchasing or arranging for the purchase of items and
acts mentioned above, as principal, agent or broker, the tax shall be $2,660.63
per year.	(b)	The tax imposed under the provisions of Subsection (a) shall not
apply to the business of lending money or advancing credit or arranging for the
loan of money or the advancing of credit as principal or agent, where the
obligation to repay the money lent or debt incurred or to compensate for the
advance of credit is secured by a lien on real property, or some interest in
real property; nor shall the provisions of this section apply to the business of
purchasing, either as principal or agent, any debt or evidence of debt secured
by any lien upon real property; nor shall the provisions of this section apply
to any transaction involving the purchase or sale of real property.  All
persons engaged in businesses as are described in this subsection shall be
subject to tax under Section 21.49, Professions and Occupations.	(c)	The tax
imposed under the provisions of Subsection (a) shall not apply to a person who,
in the conduct of another business in the City, engages in a business of the
kind described in Subsection (a) solely with customers or suppliers of that
other business; nor shall the tax apply to a person engaged in this type of
business, whether or not the relation of customer or supplier exists, when the
person confines the business dealings to other persons who are his employees,
stand in the relation of parent or subsidiary to him, are so constituted as to
have substantially common ownership with him or her, or are employees of any
person who is his parent or subsidiary or has substantially common ownership
with him or her; provided, however, if the other business is subject to a tax
under this article measured by gross receipts, all interest and other charges
received as a result of the activity described in Subsection (a) shall be
included in the gross receipts by which the tax elsewhere imposed by this
article is measured; and if the other business is not subject to a tax measured
by gross receipts, or if there is no other business, he or she shall pay a tax
under the provisions of Section 21.49, Professions and Occupations, for engaging
in the kind of activity described in Subsection (a).
