                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

TRUCKING – HAULING (§ 21.195)

  TRUCKING – HAULING
	(Added by Ord. No. 123,096, Eff. 12/1/62.)	(a)	Definitions.	1.	Operator.  The
term “operator” is used in this section as defined in the Motor Vehicle
Transportation License Tax Act of California, with reference only, however, the
persons engaging in the transportation of property for hire or
compensation.	2.	Motor Vehicle.  The term “motor vehicle” is used in this
section as defined in the Motor Vehicle Transportation License Tax Act of
California.	3.	Tractor.  The term “tractor” as used herein shall mean
“truck- tractor” as defined in the Vehicle Code of California.	(b)	Tax
Imposed.  Every person whose business in whole or in part is that of operator,
as defined herein, of any motor vehicle for the transportation of property for
hire or compensation, and who in the course of that business uses the public
streets and highways of this City for the purpose of such business, shall pay a
business tax as provided in this section.	(c)	Measure of Tax – Reporting
Period.  (Amended by Ord. No. 166,204, Eff. 10/11/90, Oper. 1/1/91.)  The tax
required to be paid by this section shall be reported and paid annually. Every
person engaged in the business subject to tax under this section shall pay a
minimum tax of $88.69 per year at the beginning of each calendar year which
shall be given as a credit against the total tax due for such year. The tax
required to be paid under this section shall be measured as follows:	1.	For each
motor vehicle, other than a tractor, trailer, semitrailer or dolly, used to
receive or discharge, pickup or deliver property within the city, the tax shall
be as follows:	Where the unladen weight thereof is 4,000 pounds or less, the tax
shall be $0.28 for each day or fraction thereof of its operation as specified in
Subsection (b);	Where the unladen weight thereof is over 4,000 pounds, and not
more than 8,000 pounds, the tax shall be $0.71 for each day or fraction thereof
of its operation as specified in Subsection (b); and	Where the unladen weight
thereof is over 8,000 pounds, the tax shall be $0.78 for each day or fraction
thereof of its operation as specified in Subsection (b).	2.	For each tractor
which is so used to haul one or more trailers or semitrailers, the tax shall be
$0.78 for each day or fraction thereof of its operation as specified in
Subsection (b).	(d)	Method of Reporting.	1.	No person shall engage in such
business or perform any act required to be taxed under this section during any
tax period without first obtaining a registration certificate and paying a
minimum tax for that year in the amount of $88.69.  (Amended by Ord. No.
166,204, Eff. 10/11/90, Oper. 1/1/91.)	2.	At the close of each tax period such
person shall file a statement with the Director of Finance showing the tax due
and setting forth a summary of the vehicles of each graduation specified in
Subsection (c) above used during such preceding tax period and the number of
days or fractions thereof of such use, and shall pay on or before the last day
of February in the next subsequent tax period any additional tax that may be due
hereunder for such preceding tax period.	3.	In making such statement, the person
may at his option elect to compute such summary and pay such tax on a “test
week” basis, by separately computing the tax which would be due for each of
the four test weeks specified in Subsection (d)4 hereof, dividing the total of
the tax due for the four test weeks by four to ascertain the average weekly tax,
and multiplying said average weekly tax by the number of weeks of the tax period
during which he conducted operations subject to tax under this section. If the
person elects to compute the tax imposed hereunder on a test week basis, such
election shall be irrevocable and conclusive as to the tax period for which such
election is made. Any person electing to compute such tax on a test week basis
shall retain the records used for such computation for a period of four years
from the date of filing such report. Upon the failure of any person electing to
compute such tax on a test week basis to retain such records, the Director of
Finance may determine the amount of any additional tax estimated to be due from
such person in the manner provided by Los Angeles Municipal Code Section
21.16.	4.	The test weeks which may be used by a person in computing the tax
imposed under this section are the second full week in January, the second full
week in April, the second full week in July and the second full week in October.
If a person does not conduct operations subject to tax under this section in any
one or more of such test weeks, then he may use the next succeeding week
following such test week in which he does conduct such operations in the place
of such test week; provided, however, that if a person does not conduct
operations subject to tax under this section during each of the four test weeks
which may, under this subsection, be used in computing the tax, such person may
not elect to compute his tax on a test week basis without prior written
application to and prior written approval of the Director of Finance as to what
alternate test period or periods may be used.	5.	In the event the business is
discontinued, dissolved or otherwise terminated before the close of such tax
period, the statement required by Subsection (d)2 hereof shall thereupon be
filed, and any additional tax due hereunder shall be paid within 45 days
following the date of such discontinuance, dissolution or
termination.	(e)	Exception for Vehicle Operated Exclusively in Interstate
Commerce.  No tax hereunder shall be required for the operation of any motor
vehicle for any day or fraction thereof when such vehicle is operated
exclusively between points within this City and points without this
State.	(f)	Exemption and Exceptions.  No tax under this section shall be
required to be paid by any person who is subject to tax under the Household
Goods Carriers Uniform Business License Tax Act or the Motor Carriers of
Property Permit Fee Act.  (Amended by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)
