                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

NEWLY ESTABLISHED BUSINESSES – COMPUTATION OF BUSINESS TAX. (§ 21.13)

  NEWLY ESTABLISHED BUSINESSES – COMPUTATION OF BUSINESS TAX.
(Amended by Ord. No. 177,246, Eff. 2/18/06, Oper. 1/1/06.)	(a)	Except in cases
where this article prescribes a different method to compute and pay the business
tax for a newly established business, the business tax shall be obtained and
paid in accordance with whichever of the following applies to the classification
of newly established business:	1.	When the annual business tax is measured by
any of the following: gross receipts, gross production costs and gross receipts,
gross cost of the work done, or gross receipts and salaries, wages, fees or
other compensation paid, the applicant for a business tax registration
certificate shall at the time of making application, pay a minimum amount of tax
that will apply for the first year of operation.  This minimum tax cannot be
pro-rated.  At the end of the business tax period, the taxpayer shall file a
written statement as prescribed in Section 21.14 disclosing all the particulars
required for the classification of that business.  At the time of renewal, the
taxpayer shall pay the actual tax owed for the first year of operation deducting
any minimum tax previously paid for that year.  This additional tax is computed
at the current rate specified for the classification of that particular
business.  This tax is then measured and paid in the manner prescribed in
Section 21.14.  In all cases, the business tax shall be determined and paid in
all business tax periods subsequent to the first business tax periods in the
manner prescribed in Section 21.14.	2.	When the annual business tax is measured
by any of the following:  the number of vehicles, machines, devices or articles
of equipment used, the number of persons employed, square foot area, seating
capacity, the scale of fees or other charges collected, the applicant for a
business tax registration certificate shall file with the Director of Finance, a
statement setting forth the applicable factors in use, expected to be in use,
employed, or collected.  The taxpayer is required to pay the business tax at
the time of making the application when the business is started.  The required
application and the tax payment is due as follows:  when the business tax
period is daily, tax is due on or before the close of business on the day on
which the business was started; when the business tax period is monthly or
quarterly, the tax is due on or before the last day of the month in which the
business was started; when the business tax period is annual, the tax is due on
or before the last day of the month following the month in which the business
was started.  After the start of the business, the factor by which the tax is
measured is increased in the first business tax period, an additional amount of
tax becomes due, and this increase shall be reported and the additional amount
of business tax paid in accordance with the provisions of Section 21.14. 
Business taxes in these cases for subsequent business tax periods shall be paid
in accordance with the provisions of Section 21.14.	3.	(i)	When the provisions
of this article impose a flat rate tax for a business tax period or a fractional
part of a period, the applicant of a business tax registration certificate for a
newly established business shall pay the business tax required at the time the
application is made, without proration for any portion of the business tax
period expired at the time the business started.	(ii)	When the provisions of
this article impose a flat rate tax for a business tax period without the
requirement that the full amount of the tax be paid for the business tax period
or any fractional part of the period, the applicant for a business tax
registration certificate for a newly established business shall, at the time the
application is made, pay the business tax required to be paid prorated for the
even monthly portion of the business tax period, which is unexpired at the time
the business is started.	(b)	Except as otherwise provided in the foregoing
cases, application by a newly established business for a business tax
registration certificate and payment of the required business tax shall be made
as follows:  whenever the business tax period is daily, on or before the close
of business on the day on which the business is started; whenever the business
tax period is monthly or quarterly, on or before the last day of the month in
which the business is started; whenever the business tax period is annual, on or
before the last day of the month following the month in which the business
started.  In these cases, the business tax for subsequent business tax periods
shall be paid when due and prior to the delinquency date provided in Section
21.05.
