                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

EXEMPTIONS. (§ 21.15.5)

  EXEMPTIONS.	No tax shall be imposed upon:	(a)	Any person as to whom or any
occupancy as to which it is beyond the power of the City to impose the tax
herein provided;	(b)	The parking fee for any occupancy of parking space in a
parking facility which is paid by the deposit of a coin or coins in a parking
meter owned or operated by the City and located adjacent to said parking
space.	(c)	The parking fee for any occupancy of parking space in a parking
facility which is part of residential or hotel premises if the occupant of said
parking space is a resident of, or a registered guest for dwelling, lodging or
sleeping purposes at, said premises for a period of at least a full calendar
month or 30 or more consecutive calendar days, counting portions of calendar
days as full days, or the parking fee for any occupancy of parking space by a
registered hotel guest for dwelling, lodging or sleeping purposes for a period
of at least a full calendar month or 30 or more consecutive calendar days,
counting portions of calendar days as full days, in a parking facility not
located on the hotel premises if the parking fee is added to the room bill of
the registered guest and paid by said registered guest to the hotel. For
purposes of this subsection, “hotel” shall have the same meaning as is
provided in Subsection (b) of Section 21.7.2 of this chapter. Any occupant
described in this subsection shall not be deemed exempt until the period of at
least a full calendar month or 30 consecutive calendar days has expired unless
there is an agreement in writing between the operator and the occupant providing
for a period of occupancy of at least a full calendar month or 30 or more
consecutive calendar days.  (Added by Ord. No. 166,309, Eff. 11/16/90, Oper.
8/1/90.)	(d)	The parking fee for occupancy by a local resident of parking space
in any parking facility, which space, as a condition of a City permit, is
dedicated for occupancy exclusively by local residents.  (Added by Ord. No.
168,618, Eff. 4/4/93, Oper. 6/1/93.)	(e)	The parking fee for the occupancy of
parking space in a parking facility by any new unregistered motor vehicle
subsequent to its importation into the United States or prior to its exportation
from the United States.  No person shall be entitled to a refund for any tax
year prior to 2002 due to the application of the exemption set forth herein. 
(Added by Ord. No. 174,373, Eff. 1/26/02.)	(f)	The parking fee for occupancy by
a mobile food facility stored at or within a commissary as required by
California Health and Safety Code Section 114295.  (Added by Ord. No. 182,291,
Eff. 12/12/12.)
