                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ASSESSMENT — ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDY. (§ 21.16)

  ASSESSMENT — ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDY.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 138,968, Eff. 8/9/69.)	(a)	Assessment of taxes.  Whenever
the Director of Finance determines that any tax is due or may be due to the City
of Los Angeles under the provisions of this chapter, he may make and give notice
of an assessment of such tax.	The notice of assessment shall separately set
forth the amount of any tax known by the Director of Finance to be due or
estimated by the Director of Finance, after full consideration of all
information within his knowledge concerning the business and activities of the
person assessed, to be due under each applicable section of this chapter and
shall include the amount of any penalties or interest accrued on each amount to
the date of the notice of assessment.	(b)	Service of assessment; right to
hearing.  The notice of assessment shall be served upon the person either by
handing it to him personally, or by a deposit of the notice in the United States
mail, postage prepaid thereon, addressed to the person at the address of the
location of the business appearing on the face of the registration certificate
issued to him or to such other address as he shall register with the Director of
Finance for the purpose of receiving notices provided under this chapter; should
the person have no registration certificate issued to him and should he have no
address registered with the Director of Finance for such purpose, then to such
person’s last known address. For the purpose of this section, a service by
mail is complete at the time of deposit in the United States mail. Within 15
days after the date of service, the person assessed may either apply in writing
to the Director of Finance for a hearing on the assessment or may file a written
request that such hearing be waived. If the person neither requests a hearing
upon the assessment nor requests a waiver of hearing within the prescribed time,
the amount of the assessment shall be final and the amount thereof shall
immediately be due and owing to the City of Los Angeles, but penalties and
interest as provided by this chapter shall continue to accrue until
paid.	(c)	Waiver of hearing.  If the person requests that the hearing be
waived, the Director of Finance may either grant such request and notify the
person thereof in writing or may, in his discretion, deny the request and set
the assessment for hearing at the time and in the manner prescribed by
Subsection (d) hereof. If the Director of Finance grants the request for waiver
of hearing, the administrative proceedings prescribed by this section shall be
deemed exhausted and the City shall have the right to bring an action in any
court of competent jurisdiction to collect the amount of the assessment, plus
such penalties and interest as may have accrued thereon as provided by this
chapter.	(d)	Time of hearing; notice.  (Amended by Ord. No. 174,084*, Eff.
8/19/01.)  If the person requests a hearing upon the assessment or if the
Director of Finance denies the person’s request for waiver of hearing, the
Director of Finance shall cause the matter to be set for hearing before an
Assessment Review Officer not later than 90 days after the date of the
application, or, as the case may be, the date of the Director of Finance’s
denial of the waiver of hearing.  A request for hearing shall be accompanied by
a written statement of the basis or bases for the request.  Notice of the time
and place of the hearing shall be mailed by the Director of Finance to the
person assessed not later than 15 days before the date set for hearing and, if
the Director of Finance desires said person to produce specific records at such
hearing, such notice may designate the records requested to be
produced.	(e)	Administrative hearing.  (Amended by Ord. No. 174,084*, Eff.
8/19/01.)  The hearing prescribed by this section shall be before an Assessment
Review Officer.  The Assessment Review Officer shall be appointed by the
Director of Finance and shall be an employee of the Office of Finance.  At the
hearing, the person assessed and the representative of the Director of Finance,
who shall be a person other than the Assessment Review Officer,  may submit
such evidence as they believe to be relevant to their respective positions. 
The Assessment Review Officer may require the presentation of additional
evidence from either the person assessed or the representative of the Director
of Finance, or from both, and may continue the hearing from time to time for the
purpose of allowing the presentation of additional evidence.	(f)	Decision of
Assessment Review Officer.  (Amended by Ord. No. 174,084*, Eff. 8/19/01.) 
Upon completion of the hearing, the Assessment Review Officer may (i) affirm the
assessment, (ii) increase the assessment, or (iii) decrease the assessment, as
the evidence may require; but the amount of the assessment shall not be
increased unless the claim for the increase is asserted on behalf of the City
either before or during the hearing.  Written notice of the decision of the
Assessment Review Officer shall be given to the person assessed in the same form
and in the same manner as the notice of assessment.	(g)	Optional Office of
Finance Appeals.  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,019, Eff. 11/14/05.)  The Office of
Finance may, at its discretion, establish one or more advisory bodies, which may
be composed of City staff and members of the public, including members of the
business community, to hear appeals from decisions of the Assessment Review
Officer.  If the Office of Finance does establish one or more boards and the
person assessed does not appeal, he or she shall nevertheless be deemed to have
exhausted the administrative proceedings provided by this section.	(h)	Hearing
Before Board of Review.  (Amended by Ord. No. 174,084*, Eff. 8/19/01.)  At the
hearing before the Board of Review, the appellant and the representative of the
Director of Finance, who shall be a person other than a member of the Board of
Review, may submit such evidence and argument as they believe to be relevant to
their respective positions.  The Board of Review may require the presentation
of additional evidence or argument, or both, from either the appellant or the
representative of the Director of Finance, or from both, and may continue the
hearing from time to time for the purpose of allowing the presentation of
additional evidence or argument, or both.	(i)	Decision of Board of Review. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 174,084*, Eff. 8/19/01.)  Upon completion of the hearing,
the Board of Review may, by majority vote of its members, affirm or decrease the
assessment, as the evidence may require.  Written notice of the decision of the
Board of Review shall be given to the appellant in the same form and in the same
manner as the notice of assessment.	(j)	Effect of Delay in Administrative
Proceedings. (Added by Ord. No. 174,084*, Eff. 8/19/01.)  Failure of the
Director of Finance to set any hearing within the time prescribed in this
section shall not affect the validity of any proceedings taken
hereunder.	(k)	Effect of Payment of an Assessment.  (Added by Ord. No.
174,084*, Eff. 8/19/01.)  Acceptance of any payment upon an assessment, the
validity of which has not previously been passed upon by the Assessment Review
Officer, shall not preclude the Director of Finance from subsequently levying
another assessment in any case where the original assessment does not truly
reflect the correct tax liability.	*  The provisions of this Ordinance shall
become operative with respect to assessments of tax levied by the Director of
Finance under Los Angeles Municipal Code Section 21.16 on and after January 1,
2002.
