                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

TRANSPORTING PERSONS FOR HIRE. (§ 21.194)

  TRANSPORTING PERSONS FOR HIRE.
	(Added by Ord. No. 123,096, Eff. 12/1/62.)	(a)	Definitions:	1.	Operator.  The
term “operator” is used in this section as defined in the Motor Vehicle
Transportation License Tax Act of California, with reference only, however, to
persons engaging in the transportation of persons for hire.	2.	Transportation
for Hire.  The term “transportation for hire” shall be deemed to include
transportation for gain or profit, direct or in direct.	3.	Motor Vehicle.  The
term “motor vehicle” is used in this section as defined in the Motor Vehicle
Transportation License Tax Act of California.	(b)	Tax Imposed.	1.	Every person
whose business in whole or in part is that of operator, as defined herein, of
any motor vehicle for the transportation of persons for hire, and who in the
course of that business uses the public streets and highways of the City for the
purpose of such business, shall pay a business tax as provided in this
section.	2.	The business taxed under the provisions of this section shall be the
transportation of persons by an operator:	(i)	Wholly within the City;	(ii)	From
a place or places outside the City to a place or places within the
City;	(iii)	From a place or places within the City to a place or places outside
of the City;	(iv)	From a place or places within the City to a place or places
also within the City even though such transportation involves going outside the
City in the course thereof.	3.	This section shall not apply to the business of
operating motor coaches or other motor vehicles under the provisions of a
franchise granted pursuant to provisions of the City Charter and the Franchise
Procedures Ordinance of the City of Los Angeles, which requires a franchise fee
or charge based upon such operations to be paid to the City of Los Angeles, when
such fee or charge has been paid. Nor shall this section apply to an operator
who transports persons for hire from a place or places outside the City to a
place or places within the City by taxi cabs when said operator does not also
transport persons for hire from a place within the City of Los Angeles. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 139,139, Eff. 9/14/69.)	4.	No business tax shall be
required to be paid for the business of operating a single taxicab in the City
pursuant to a written vehicle permit issued under Section 71.02.  (Added by
Ord. No. 150,105, Eff. 10/9/77.)	(c)	Measure of Tax  Reporting Period. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 166,204, Eff. 10/11/90, Oper. 1/1/91.)  The tax required
to be paid by this section shall be reported and paid annually. Every person
engaged in the business subject to tax under this section shall pay a minimum
tax of $54.99 per year at the beginning of each calendar year which shall be
given as a credit against the total tax due for such year. The tax required to
be paid under this section shall be measured as follows:	1.	For each vehicle
having a seating capacity of 10 or less persons, the tax shall be $1.06 for each
day or fraction thereof of its operation as specified in Subsection (b);	2.	For
each vehicle having a seating capacity of 11 to 30 persons, inclusive, the tax
shall be $1.60 for each day or fraction thereof of its operation as specified in
Subsection (b); and	3.	For each vehicle having a seating capacity of 31 or more
persons, the tax shall be $2.19 for each day or fraction thereof of its
operation as specified in Subsection (b).	In determining seating capacity of any
vehicle used to measure the tax imposed under this section, the capacity to hold
adult passengers as set forth in the specifications of the manufacturer shall be
the determining factor, and seats provided for the driver, and announcer or
conductor, if any, shall be included in addition to such specified
capacity.	(d)	Method of Reporting.	1.	No person shall engage in such business or
perform any act required to be taxed under this section during any tax period
without first obtaining a registration certificate and paying a minimum tax for
that year in the amount of $54.99.  (Amended by Ord. No. 166,204, Eff.
10/11/90, Oper. 1/1/91.)	2.	At the close of each tax period such person shall
file a statement with the Director of Finance showing the tax due setting forth
a summary of the vehicles of each graduation specified in Subsection (c) above
used during such proceeding tax period and the number of days or fractions
thereof of such use, and shall pay on or before the last day of February in the
next subsequent tax period any additional tax that may be due hereunder for such
proceeding tax period.	3.	In making such statement, the person may at his option
elect to compute such summary and pay such tax on a “test week” basis, by
separately computing the tax which would be due for each of the four test weeks
specified in Subsection (d) 4 hereof, dividing the total of the tax due for the
four test weeks by four to ascertain the average weekly tax, and multiplying
said average weekly tax by the number of weeks of the tax period during which
the conducted operations subject to tax under this section. If the person elects
to compute the tax imposed hereunder on a test week basis, such elections shall
be irrevocable and conclusive as to the tax period for which such election is
made. Any person electing to compute such tax on a test week basis shall retain
the records used for such computation for a period of four years from the date
of filing such report. Upon the failure of any person electing to compute such
tax on a test week basis to retain such records, the Director of Finance may
determine the amount of any additional tax estimated to be due from such persons
in the manner provided by Los Angeles Municipal Code Section 21.16.	4.	The test
weeks which may be used by a person in computing the tax imposed under this
section are the second full week in January, the second full week in April, the
second full week in July and the second full week in October. If a person does
not conduct operations subject to tax under this section in any one or more of
such test weeks, then he may use the next succeeding week following such test
week in which he does conduct such operations in the place of such test week;
provided, however, that if a person does not conduct operations subject to tax
under this section during each of the four test weeks which may, under this
subsection, be used in computing the tax, such person may not elect to compute
his tax on a test week basis without prior written application to and prior
written approval of the Director of Finance as to what alternate test period or
periods may be used.	5.	In the event the business is discontinued, dissolved or
otherwise terminated before the close of such tax period, the statement required
by Subsection (d)2 hereof shall thereupon be filed, and any additional tax due
hereunder shall be paid within 45 days following the date of such continuance,
dissolution or termination.	(e)	Exemption for Vehicles Operated Exclusively in
Interstate Commerce.  No tax hereunder shall be required for the operation of
any motor vehicle for any day or fraction thereof when such vehicle is operated
exclusively between points within this City and points without this
State.	(f)	Exemptions and Exceptions.  No tax hereunder shall be required for
the operation of any motor vehicle for any day or fraction thereof when such
vehicle is operated exclusively between fixed termini or over regular routes in
passenger stage operations under certificate issued by the Public Utilities
Commission pursuant to Division 1, Part 1, Chapter 5, Article 2 of the Public
Utilities Code of the State of California and for which operation a certificate
of public convenience and necessity has been issued by the Interstate Commerce
Commission.  (Former (h) Relettered (f) by Ord. No. 159,384, Eff. 11/
8/84.)	(g)	Measure of Tax for Certain School Buses.  (Amended by Ord. No.
166,204, Eff. 10/11/90, Oper. 1/1/91.)  The provisions of Subsection (c)
notwithstanding, the tax required to be paid under this section for the
operation of any motor vehicle for any day or fraction thereof when such vehicle
is operated exclusively on any day to transport students or members of bona fide
youth organizations and their supervising adults to or from public or private
schools, school events or other youth activities, without regard to the manner
or source of compensation to the operator, shall be measured as follows:	1.	For
each vehicle having a seating capacity of 10 or less persons, the tax shall be
$0.30 for each day or fraction thereof of its operation as specified in
Subsection (b);	2.	For each vehicle having a seating capacity of 11 to 30
persons, inclusive, the tax shall be $0.44 for each day or fraction thereof of
its operation as specified in Subsection (b); and	3.	For each vehicle having a
seating capacity of 31 or more persons, the tax shall be $0.60 for each day or
fraction thereof of its operation as specified in Subsection (b).
