                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PURPOSE. (§ 21.14.4)

  PURPOSE.	(a)	The purpose of this special tax is to provide funds to the City
to pay:	1.	lease payments to be made by the City pursuant to any lease of fire
safety and paramedic communications and dispatch equipment and systems to be
utilized by the Fire Department;	2.	expenses incurred incident to the
authorization, issuance or sale of the bonds referred to below;	3.	costs or
expenses incurred by any lessor of any such communications and dispatch
equipment or systems in connection with the execution, performance or
enforcement of any such lease or any assignment thereof, the ownership of any
such communication and dispatch equipment or systems or the lease thereof to the
City, including but not limited to fees, costs, expenses or administrative costs
of any such lessor in connection with any such communications equipment or
systems;	4.	costs or expenses (including attorneys’ fees and disbursements) of
any trustee under any trust agreement or indenture under which any of such bonds
are issued, including but not limited to compensation and indemnification of any
such trustee;	5.	any insurance premiums payable on account of any such equipment
or systems (including amounts payable to any self–insurance fund) or its use
or operation;	6.	any amounts payable incident to obtaining or maintaining, or
otherwise pursuant to, any credit enhancement or liquidity agreements or
arrangements with respect to any of such bonds or lease;	7.	any amounts required
to be paid to the United States of America as a rebate in order for interest
payments on any of such bonds to be exempt from federal income taxes;	8.	any
amount required to be paid into any reserve fund created under any such trust
agreement or indenture; and	9.	the costs of collecting and administering the
tax.	The lease payments will serve as collateral for and the source of repayment
of not to exceed $67,000,000 in lease revenue bonds (including refunding bonds)
to be issued as a single issue, or in two or more issues or series of an issue,
by a nonprofit corporation, joint powers authority or other financing
medium.	The net proceeds of the lease revenue bonds are to be used to acquire
such communications and dispatch equipment and systems. The equipment and
systems are required by the Fire Department to provide more rapid, efficient
delivery of fire safety and paramedic services in the City of  Los Angeles. In
the event the City shall lease any of such communications and dispatch equipment
or systems under a lease that is payable from the General Fund as well as from
the special tax, and such lease provides for abatement of rent or other payments
either in whole or in part in the event of damage to or destruction of any such
equipment or systems, then, in the event there is any such abatement, payments
from the special tax permitted by this Section 21.14.4 shall be allocated first
to, or in respect of, any component of the equipment or systems for which
payment from the General Fund has abated due to such damage or destruction, and
thereafter to the balance of the equipment and systems. In the event the City
Council does not authorize the leasing of such equipment and systems, the tax
shall not take effect.	(b)	The taxes collected pursuant to this article shall
not be used to replace City General Fund money that would normally be
appropriated to finance fire safety or paramedic service.	(c)	The Los Angeles
City Council may provide for the collection of the special tax in the same
manner and subject to the same penalties as, or with, other charges and taxes
fixed and collected by the City, or by the County of Los Angeles on behalf of
the City of Los Angeles. If the special tax is collected by the County on behalf
of the City, the County may deduct its reasonable costs incurred for such
service.	(d)	Director of Finance costs of enforcement and administration of the
tax, including refunds, shall be paid from the special tax revenues.
