                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DWELLING UNIT CONSTRUCTION TAX. (§ 21.10.3)

  DWELLING UNIT CONSTRUCTION TAX.	(a)	There is hereby imposed an excise tax
upon every person who constructs or causes to be constructed any new dwelling
unit in the City of Los Angeles in which said person has an equity or title. The
tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of two hundred dollars
($200.00) per dwelling unit.	1.	The tax imposed by this section shall be imposed
regardless of whether the new dwelling unit is created by new construction or by
modification of existing structures. The tax imposed shall apply to new mobile
home park sites regardless of whether they are part of a new mobile home park or
an addition to an existing park. The tax imposed shall also apply to the
conversion of an existing apartment building into a condominium or condominiums
if the construction of the apartment building did not subject any person to the
tax imposed by this article.	(b)	Where, as a condition of approval of a
subdivision of land or of the finalization of a zone change to a zone which
permits a multiple residential use, which subdivision or zone change includes
the land whereon the new dwelling unit is to be constructed, a fee has been
paid, or improvements or recreational facilities have been installed,
constructed, or guaranteed to an existing City park or upon land being dedicated
as a City park, or land has been dedicated to the City of Los Angeles, all
pursuant to the provisions of Sections 12.22 or 17.12 of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code, or where a voluntary payment of such a sum, or dedication of
such land, or the installation or construction of such recreational facilities
or improvements has been made, or any combination thereof as would have been
required by Sections 12.33 or 17.12 of such Code, if applicable, has occurred, a
credit shall be allowed against the tax imposed by this article in the amount of
the fee so paid, or the fair market value of the land so dedicated, or the value
of the improvements or recreational facilities installed, constructed or
guaranteed, or a combination of any of the above. As used herein the term
“fair market value” shall mean the valuation of the particular land by the
Board of Recreation and Park Commissioners and shall be based upon the
proportionate portion of the appraised value of all the land within the
subdivision or zone change property which the area dedicated bears to the area
of all the land within the subdivision or zone change property, which appraisal
is prepared by a qualified real estate appraiser, approved by the Real Estate
Division of the Bureau of Engineering of the City, and employed by the property
owner at his own expense, and which appraisal, after report and recommendation
by the Real Estate Division of the Bureau of Engineering is accepted as
reasonable by the Board of Recreation and Park Commissioners. The value of the
improvements or the facilities referred to in this section shall be established
pursuant to Section 17.12F8 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code. A credit shall
also be allowed where a conversion of an existing apartment building into a
condominium or condominiums has resulted in the payment of a fee, the
construction, installation or guarantee of recreational facilities or
improvements, or the dedication of land, or any of the above, to the City of Los
Angeles pursuant to the provisions of Sections 12.33 or 17.12 of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code. A credit shall also be allowed for the amount of tax paid under
this article because of the modification of a structure when the structure is
subsequently converted from an apartment building into a condominium or
condominiums. Provided, however, that in no event shall the amount of credit
exceed the amount of tax; further provided that no credit against the tax
established hereby shall be allowed, and no set-off against said tax shall be
permitted, in those instances where a person received an exemption or credit
under the provisions of Subdivisions 1, 3, 4 or 5 of Subsection F of Section
17.12 or Section 12.33 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.  (Amended by Ord. No.
163,797, Eff. 8/8/88.)	(c)	The tax imposed by this article shall be paid to the
Department of Building and Safety. The Director of Finance is directed to
enforce each and all of the provisions of this article and may make such rules
and regulations as are not inconsistent with this article as may be necessary or
desirable to aid in the enforcement of these provisions. The Director of Finance
may demand statements in writing from any person subject to tax calling for
information as he may deem pertinent for the administration and collection of
the tax. It shall be the duty of any such person receiving such a demand from
the Director of Finance to furnish such information. The Director of Finance may
require any statement to be verified.  (Amended by Ord. No. 175,083, Eff.
3/25/03.)	(d)	The tax collected pursuant to this article shall be placed in a
“Park and Recreational Sites and Facilities Fund,” to be exclusively for the
acquisition and development of park and recreational sites and facilities. Any
refunds required or permitted by law, of taxes collected under this article
shall be made from that Fund.	(e)	The tax imposed by this article shall not
apply to construction which is subsidized, in whole or part, by the federal or
state government, where a majority of the units are built for senior citizens or
disabled persons of low income by non-profit corporations, where the property is
exempt from County property taxes and any income therefrom is exempt from
federal and state income taxes, and the construction and development thereof
complies with the provisions of Section 17.12 of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 168,771, Eff. 7/9/93, Oper. 1/1/89.)	(f)	The tax
imposed by this article shall not apply to the construction of any dwelling unit
which qualifies a residential facility as a “shelter for the homeless,” as
that term is defined in Section 12.03 of this Code.  (Added by Ord. No.
164,785, Eff. 6/5/89.)	(g)	The tax imposed by this article shall not apply to
the reconstruction or replacement of a dwelling unit which was damaged or
destroyed as a result of the earthquake of January 17, 1994 and its aftershocks,
as determined by the Department of Building and Safety.  (Added by Ord No.
169,952, Eff. 8/26/94.)
