                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

COMMON CARRIER BUS. (§ 21.187)

  COMMON CARRIER BUS.
	(Title Amended by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)	(a)	For the purpose of this
section the following words and phrases shall be defined as follows:	1.	The word
“bus” shall include motorbus, motor coach, trolley bus, omnibus, passenger
stage, or similar vehicle using either a self–contained source of power or
power obtained from another source such as an overhead trolley system not
operated upon fixed tracks or rails, and primarily designed for the
transportation of more than seven passengers, excluding the driver.	2.	The word
“operator” shall mean any person engaging in the business, either directly
or indirectly, as a common carrier in the transportation of persons by bus, upon
any street in this City.	3.	The phrase “bus revenue mile” shall mean the
operation, for one mile, of a bus then and there made available for use as a
common carrier in the transportation of persons or property for hire.	4.	The
phrase “base week” shall mean the third week in January, the third week in
April, the second week in July, and the first week in October; provided that the
Director of Finance may from time to time order that there be substituted in
lieu of any of the four weeks hereinabove designated the week next preceding or
next succeeding such designated week. In the event of any such order by the
Director of Finance the operator shall be notified thereof at least ten days
prior to the first day of the substituted week. The word “week” means a
Sunday and the six next succeeding days.	5.	The phrase “gross receipts”
shall have the same meaning as that set forth in Sec. 21.00(a) of this Code and
shall include the total gross receipts of the operator, together with the full
cash value of any consideration received in a form other than cash from:	(i)	The
transportation of persons and property by bus, as a common carrier, and from
advertising and all other privileges or services in, on, or by buses while being
so operated, including receipts from the sale of tokens, tickets, and passes,
and from all contracts by the terms of which the operator agrees to furnish
transportation by bus, as a common carrier, whether or not such transportation
be actually furnished; and	(ii)	The rental	(A)	of any bus operated in this City
as a common carrier;	(B)	of property operated, installed, or maintained in any
street in the City for use in connection with the operation of any bus as a
common carrier;	(C)	from permitting others to use or occupy any part thereof;
and	(D)	from allowing to others any privilege whatsoever with respect thereto;
provided that for any operator transporting passengers in areas outside this
City, only that proportion of Item (i) shall be included, which the number of
bus revenue miles operated in this City in the last four consecutive base weeks,
the latest of which terminates within the next preceding tax period, bears to
the total number of bus revenue miles operated in said base weeks.	(b)	Every
person engaged in the business of transporting persons as a common carrier for
hire, by bus, upon or over any street in this City, which business includes the
loading or discharging of passengers on the streets of this City, shall pay for
each calendar year or portion thereof (or, if required by the Director of
Finance, for each calendar quarter or portion thereof) commencing January 1,
1971, a sum equal to 1.48% of the gross receipts of the next preceding tax
period, but not less than $14.78 per year or $3.67 per quarter, as the case may
be.  (Amended by Ord. No. 166,204, Eff. 10/11/90, Oper. 1/1/91.)	(c)	The
provisions of this section shall not apply to:	1.	Any municipal corporation or
other public entity.	2.	The gross receipts derived from, or the bus revenue
miles traveled by, any bus while being operated solely pursuant to any
registration certificate issued under any other section of this article.	3.	The
business of operating busses in this City pursuant to a franchise granted by
ordinance of this City, which franchise provides for payment to this City of not
less than 2-1/2% of the gross receipts. The exemption extended by this
subsection shall apply to all such franchise operations commencing January 1,
1947.	(d)	If any subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this section
is, for any reason, held to be invalid or unconstitutional by the decision of
any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity
of the remaining portions of this section. The Council of this City hereby
declares that it would have adopted this section and each subsection, sentence,
clause, phrase or portion thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more
subsections, sentences, clauses, phrases or portions be declared invalid or
unconstitutional.
