                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

MISCELLANEOUS TRUCKING. (§ 21.196)

  MISCELLANEOUS TRUCKING.
	(Added by Ord. No. 123,096, Eff. 12/1/62.)	(a)	Definitions.  For purposes of
this section, the term “motor vehicle” is defined to mean the same as that
term is defined in the Motor Vehicle Transportation License Tax Act of
California: the term “trailer” and “semi-trailer” are used as those
terms are defined in the Vehicle Code of California; the term “tractor”
shall mean a “truck tractor” as defined in the Vehicle Code of
California.	(b)	Tax Imposed.  Every person engaged in any business not
otherwise specifically taxed by other provisions of this article who uses any
motor vehicle over the public streets and highways of this City for hauling or
carrying his tools, equipment or supplies, or for delivering or carrying goods,
wares or merchandise sold, let or handled by him in the course of his business,
shall pay a business tax as provided in this section.	(c)	Measure of Tax 
Reporting Period.  (Amended by Ord. No. 166,204, Eff. 10/11/90, Oper.
1/1/91.)	The tax required to be paid by this section shall be reported and paid
annually. Every person engaged in the business subject to tax under this section
shall pay a minimum tax of $88.69 per year at the beginning of each calendar
year which shall be given as a credit against the total tax due for such year.
The tax required to be paid under this section shall be measured as
follows:	1.	For each motor vehicle, other than a tractor, trailer, semitrailer
or dolly, the tax shall be as follows:	Where the unladen weight thereof is 4,000
pounds or less, the tax shall be $0.28 for each day or fraction thereof of its
operation as specified in Subsection (b);	Where the unladen weight thereof is
over 4,000 pounds, and not more than 8,000 pounds, the tax shall be $0.71 for
each day or fraction thereof of its operation as specified in Subsection (b);
and	Where the unladen weight thereof is over 8,000 pounds, the tax shall be
$0.78 for each day or fraction thereof of its operation as specified in
Subsection (b).	2.	For each tractor which is so used to haul one or more
trailers or semitrailers, the tax shall be $0.78 for each day or fraction
thereof of its operation as specified in Subsection (b).	(d)	Method of
Reporting.	1.	No person shall engage in such business or perform any act
required to be taxed under this section during any tax period without first
obtaining a registration certificate and paying a minimum tax for that year in
the amount of $88.69.  (Amended by Ord. No. 166,204, Eff. 10/11/90, Oper.
1/1/91.)	2.	At the close of each tax period such person shall file a statement
with the Director of Finance showing the tax due and setting forth a summary of
the vehicles of each graduation specified in Subsection (c) above used during
such preceding tax period and the number of days or fractions thereof of such
use, and shall pay on or before the last day of February in the next subsequent
tax period any additional tax that may be due hereunder for such preceding tax
period.	3.	In making such statement, the person may at his option elect to
compute such summary and pay such tax on a “test week” basis, by separately
computing the tax which would be due for each of the four test weeks specified
in Subsection (d)4 hereof dividing the total of the tax due for the four test
weeks by four to ascertain the average weekly tax, and multiplying said average
weekly tax by the number of weeks of the tax period during which he conducted
operations subject to tax under this section. If the person elects to compute
the tax imposed hereunder on a test week basis, such election shall be
irrevocable and conclusive as to the tax period for which such election is made.
Any person electing to compute such tax on a test week basis shall retain the
records used for such computation for a period of four years from the date of
filing such report. Upon the failure of any person electing to compute such tax
on a test week basis to retain such records, the Director of Finance may
determine the amount of any additional tax estimated to be due from such person
in the manner provided by Los Angeles Municipal Code Section 21.16.	4.	The test
week which may be used by a person in computing the tax imposed under this
section are the second full week in January, the second full week in April, the
second full week in July and the second full week in October. If a person does
not conduct operations subject to tax under this section in any one or more of
such test weeks, then he may use the next succeeding week following such test
week in which he does conduct such operations in the place of such test week;
provided, however, that if a person does not conduct operations subject to tax
under this section during each of the four test weeks which may, under this
subsection, be used in computing the tax, such person may not elect to compute
his tax on a test week basis without prior written application to and prior
written approval of the Director of Finance as to what alternate test period or
periods may be used.	5.	In the event the business is discontinued, dissolved or
otherwise terminated before the close of such tax period, the statement required
by Subsection (d)2 hereof shall thereupon be filed, and any additional tax due
hereunder shall be paid within 45 days following the date of such
discontinuance, dissolution or termination.
