                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ASSESSMENT – ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDY. (§ 21.1.10)

  ASSESSMENT – ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDY.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 136,861, Eff. 8/19/68.)	(a)	The Director of Finance may
make an assessment for taxes not remitted by a person required to remit for any
reason specified in Sec. 21.16 of this chapter for making an assessment for
unpaid Business Tax. The manner of making and providing notice of such
assessment; the right to a hearing and the conduct of such hearing; the
preparation and service of findings; filing exceptions; and passing upon
exceptions shall be the same as provided in Sec. 21.16 of this
chapter.	(b)	Whenever the Director of Finance determines that a service user has
deliberately withheld the amount of the tax owed by him from the amounts
remitted to a person required to collect the tax, or that a service user has
failed to pay the amount of the tax to such person for a period of two or more
billing periods, or whenever the Director of Finance deems it in the best
interests of the City, he may relieve such person of the obligation to collect
taxes due under this article from certain named service users for specified
billing periods. The Office of Finance shall notify the service user that he has
assumed responsibility to collect the taxes due for the stated periods and
demand payment of such taxes. (Sentence Amended by Ord. No. 173,587, Eff.
12/7/00.)  The notice shall be served on the service user by handing it to him
personally or by deposit of the notice in the United States mail, postage
prepaid thereon, addressed to the service user at the address to which billing
was made by the person required to collect the tax; or, should the service user
have changed his address, to his last known address. If a service user fails to
remit the tax to the Director of Finance within fifteen days from the date of
the service of the notice upon him, which shall be the date of mailing if
service is not accomplished in person, a penalty of twenty-five percent of the
amount of the tax set forth in the notice shall be imposed, but not less than
$5.00. The penalty shall become part of the tax herein required to be paid.
