                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

WRITTEN STATEMENTS – WHEN REQUIRED –COMPUTATION OF THE TAX. (§ 21.14)

  WRITTEN STATEMENTS – WHEN REQUIRED –  COMPUTATION OF THE TAX.	(a)	Except
where a provision of this article specifically provides a different method for
the filing of a statement and payment of the business tax for a designated
classification of business, statements required hereunder shall be filed and
payment of the tax made in the following manner:	1.	Whenever an annual business
tax is measured by gross receipts, gross cost of production and gross receipts,
gross cost of the work done, or gross receipts and salaries, wages, fees or
other compensation paid, the person subject to the business tax shall, before
the tax becomes delinquent, file with the Director of Finance a written
statement setting forth whichever of the following is applicable to the
classification of business being engaged in: The gross receipts of the preceding
year; the gross cost of production and gross receipts of the preceding year; the
gross cost of the work done in the preceding year; or gross receipts and
salaries, wages, fees or other compensation paid in the preceding year; and such
person shall pay at such time the amount of the business tax computed upon the
measure of the tax reported in the statement.	2.	Whenever a quarterly business
tax is imposed upon the number of oil wells operated and the number of barrels
of oil produced, the person subject to the tax shall, before the business tax
for each quarter becomes delinquent, file with the Director of Finance a written
statement setting forth the number of wells in operation and the number of
barrels of oil produced by each well in the preceding calendar quarter and such
person shall pay at such time the amount of the business tax computed upon the
measure of the tax reported in the statement.	3.	Whenever the business tax is
measured by the number of vehicles, machines, devices, tables, articles of
equipment used or persons employed, or whenever the business tax is measured by
square foot area, seating capacity, the scale of fees or other charges
collected, the person subject to the tax shall before the tax becomes delinquent
file with the Director of Finance a written statement setting forth the then
applicable factor or factors that constitute the measure of the tax and shall
pay at such time the amount of the business tax computed thereon. In each case
where the factor by which the tax is measured is increased during the business
tax period and an additional amount of business tax becomes due, the person
subject to the tax shall notify the Director of Finance and pay the additional
tax due in the following manner: When the business tax period is daily, on the
day the increase occurs; when the business tax period is monthly or quarterly,
within 30 days of the date on which the increase occurred; when the business tax
period is annual, on or before the last day of the month following the month in
which the increase occurred.	(b)	The written statements shall be made upon forms
prescribed by the Director of Finance and shall include a declaration
substantially as follows:	“I declare, under penalty of making a false
declaration, that I am authorized to make this statement, and that to the best
of my knowledge and belief it is a true, correct and complete statement made in
good faith for the period stated, in compliance with the provisions of the Los
Angeles Municipal Code.”	(c)	Such statements shall not be conclusive against
the City as to the information set forth therein, nor shall the filing of a
statement preclude the City from collecting by appropriate action any additional
tax that is later determined to be due and payable under the provisions of this
article.	(d)	The Director of Finance and all of his or her deputies shall have
the power and authority to require the person subject to the tax to provide any
other information including a list of subcontractors, vendors and tenants that
will help enforce the business tax.  The operative date of this [sub]section
will be January 1, 2005.  (Added by Ord. No. 177,216, Eff. 2/8/06.)
