                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ACTIONS TO COLLECT. (§ 21.15.13)

  ACTIONS TO COLLECT.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 182,283, Eff. 11/19/12.)	Any tax required to be paid by
any occupant under the provisions of this Article shall be deemed a debt owed by
the occupant to the City.  Any such tax collected by an operator which has not
been paid to the City shall be deemed a debt owed by the operator to the City. 
In addition to the operator itself, the Director of Finance may collect an
operator’s liabilities, including interest and penalties, from any person or
persons the Director of Finance determines was responsible for performing the
acts of collecting, accounting for, and remitting the Parking Occupancy Taxes to
the City and failed to do so, or who had the power to control the financial
decision-making process by which the operator allocates funds to creditors in
reference to the operator’s obligation to remit the Parking Occupancy Taxes to
the City.  When it is not clear who the person or persons responsible to the
City are, the Director of Finance may presume the President, Chief Executive
Officer, and/or Chief Financial Officer of a corporation or any managing partner
or member of an association to be a person responsible for performing such
acts.  The Director of Finance is authorized to name all such persons
potentially responsible for performing such acts in a notice of assessment
pursuant to Section 21.15.10 and may send such notice to the same address to be
used for the operator’s assessment as set forth in Sections 21.15.10 and 21.16
in this chapter and such persons shall have the same rights as the operator to
appeal the assessment as set forth in said sections.  The liability of such
persons shall be joint and several with each other and with the operator.  Any
person owing money to the City under the provisions of this Article shall be
liable to an action brought in the name of the City for the recovery of such
amount.  Any operator who undertakes legal action to recover any unpaid parking
fee from an occupant may include the amount of tax due from the occupant in the
amount sought to be recovered.
