                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

RELIGIOUS, CHARITY, ETC.; PROCEDURE FOR ISSUANCE OF TAX EXEMPT REGISTRATION
CERTIFICATES. (§ 21.22)

  RELIGIOUS, CHARITY, ETC.; PROCEDURE FOR ISSUANCE OF TAX EXEMPT REGISTRATION
CERTIFICATES.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 149,522, Eff. 5/23/77.)	(a)	The provisions of this article
shall not be construed to require the payment of any business tax to operate or
carry on the functions of any charitable or religious institution, organization
or association organized for charitable or religious purposes and conducted
solely for such purposes, nor the payment of any business tax to engage in
teaching, preaching or otherwise disseminating any religious tenets or the
beliefs of any religion; nor shall any business tax be required to be paid by
any religious or other charitable association, including fraternal, educational,
civic, military, state, county and municipal organizations and associations, for
the conducting or staging of any theatrical, art, or sporting exhibition or
similar event, or any dance, concert, or lecture, when the net proceeds derived
from any of the same are not used for the purpose of private gain to any
individual but are used wholly for the benefit of such organization or for
charitable or benevolent purposes, nor shall a business tax be required to be
paid by any credit union corporation. Such persons are entitled to receive tax
exempt registration certificates upon application for and qualification as
provided in this section.	(b)	An independent contractor who for profit or gain
undertakes to carry on any business or activity, for the conduct or operation of
which a registration certificate and business tax is required by any section of
this article, shall not be exempted from the registration and tax requirements
of this Article because of the fact that he has paid or agreed to pay or turn
over to any charitable institution or organization a portion of the receipts of
the business or activity as a reward or recompense for the sponsorship of the
business or activity, or for any other reason, and such a contractor shall not
be deemed to be acting for purposes entitling him to a tax exempt registration
certificate.	(c)	1.	The Director of Finance shall, upon application, issue a tax
exempt registration certificate to any credit union corporation upon being
furnished with satisfactory evidence of its incorporation and operation as
such.	2.	Any applicant for a tax exempt registration certificate authorized in
Subsection (a), other than a credit union corporation, shall make an application
upon a form furnished by the Director of Finance. The application shall be
forwarded to the Board of Police Commissioners which shall make or cause to be
made such investigation of the applicant and the activity carried on or proposed
to be carried on as may be necessary to determine whether or not the applicant
and the activity for which a tax exempt registration certificate is applied for
meet the requirements of Subsection (a) hereof, and that the proceeds of the
activity, if any, are to be used for the purposes mentioned therein. The Board
of Police Commissioners shall endorse its finding upon the application and
return the same to the Director of Finance. If the finding is to the effect that
the requirements of Subsection (a) are met, the Director of Finance shall then
issue a tax exempt registration certificate provided the applicant has complied
with all other applicable provisions of this Code; provided further, however,
that when the activity to be engaged in is of the kind for which the applicant
must file a Notice of Intention as provided in Article 4 of Chapter 4 of this
Code, no tax exempt registration certificate shall be issued until such Notice
of Intention has been filed and an Information Card issued to the applicant as
provided in said Article 4. The registration certificate so issued shall show on
its face that it is tax exempt. If the finding of the Board of Police
Commissioners is that the requirements of Subsection (a) hereof are not met, no
registration certificate shall be issued without payment of the tax prescribed
in the appropriate section of this article. (Amended by Ord. No. 173,283, Eff.
6/26/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)	(d)	If at any time any activity listed in Subsection (a)
as being entitled to the issuance of a tax exempt registration certificate is
conducted in such a manner that, had it been disclosed in the application
described in Subsection (c), would not have entitled the person carrying on the
activity to a tax exempt registration certificate, or if the net proceeds
derived from those activities named in Subsection (a) are not used for a purpose
approved therein, any tax exempt registration certificate therefore issued shall
be void and the full amount of the tax shall be due and payable.	(e)	Subject to
the provisions of Subsection (d) hereof, upon the Director of Finance’s
issuance of a tax exempt registration certificate to a person, any tax,
including any penalty or interest accrued thereon, owing by such person pursuant
to any provision of this article for any period prior to such issuance by virtue
of carrying on any activity described in Subsection (a) hereof in the manner
prescribed therein which would have entitled such person to receive a tax exempt
registration certificate shall be canceled as if it had never become due or
owing, and, if paid, a refund thereof shall be made, subject to the provisions
of Section 21.07 of this Code, as if it had been overpaid. (Added by Ord. No.
149,522, Eff. 5/23/77.)
