                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SMALL BUSINESS EXEMPTION. (§ 21.29)

  SMALL BUSINESS EXEMPTION.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 176,342, Eff. 1/19/05, Oper. 7/1/05.)	(a)	Small
Business.  No tax is required to be paid under this Article by any Small
Business.  A Small Business shall mean any person whose total taxable and
nontaxable gross receipts from within and without the City do not exceed
$50,000.00.  The $50,000.00 amount shall be increased to $100,000.00 on July 1,
2006.	(b)	Creative Artist.  No tax is required to be paid by a person under
this Article for gross receipts attributable to “Creative Activities”,
earned when that person is engaged in business as a “Creative Artist”,
unless the total taxable and nontaxable gross receipts from within and without
the City which are attributable to “Creative Activities” exceed $300,000.00
annually.	For purposes of this exemption, a “Creative Artist” shall mean
only a person who operates either (1) as an individual, (2) through a
corporation with one individual as the only shareholder and the only employee
(commonly referred to as a “loan-out”), or (3) through a limited liability
company with one individual as the only member and the only employee.
“Creative Activities” shall mean activities described herein.  Gross
receipts from Creative Activities shall not include any gross receipts received
by a Creative Artist from activities that are not Creative Activities (for
example, public appearances or product endorsements, or teaching as opposed to
performing).  Such other receipts shall not be exempt under this subsection,
and shall be taxable as otherwise provided in this Article.  In implementing
the intent of this subsection, the Director of Finance shall consider that
Creative Activities are distinct from a craft, and that this exemption applies
to Creative Artists for their Creative Activities but not to craft persons. 
References to “multi-media” are to be interpreted as defined in subsection
(b) of Section 21.189.4. 	Eligibility for the small business exemption provided
in subsection (a), above, shall be based on total taxable and non-taxable gross
receipts from within and without the City, including receipts for Creative
Activities.	Creative Activities shall mean activities performed by Creative
Artists primarily for entertainment and/or aesthetic purposes, including
assistants or professional trainees performing those same Creative Activities,
in the following professions:	1.	The following professions to the extent they
are directly involved with motion picture, radio or television productions,
commercials, multi-media or recorded or live music or theater:- Actor or
announcer; or- Art director, costume designer, production designer, scenery or
set designer; or- Choreographer; or- Cinematographer; or- Conductor of bands,
chorales, orchestras, and other musical groups; or- Director; or- Motion picture
editor, sound dubbing, special effects, or titling artist; or- Writer (where the
writing is the writer’s own creative work, but not writing that is
compilation, documentation or description of a non-artistic nature, such as
technical writing, the writing of technical or scientific reports, etc.); or-
Music or lyrics arranger, composer or writer; or	2.	Author of books, essays,
poems or short stories; or	3.	Cartoon artist, including animated media;
or	4.	Creator of visual fine arts, using artist’s materials (i.e.,
lithographer, painter, sculptor, or the equivalent); or	5.	Drawing, graphic,
illustration or sketch artist; or	6.	Performing artist, including comedian,
dancer, impersonator, juggler, magician, mime, musician, or singer;
or	7.	Photographer, to the extent the photography is primarily artistic in
nature and not primarily journalistic or commercial.	(c)	Any person exempt from
tax under Subsections (a) or (b) shall be required to timely file for
registration and subsequent renewals before the delinquency date.  The failure
to timely file or renew prior to the date the taxes would otherwise have been
delinquent pursuant to Section 21.05 of this Article, shall render inapplicable
the exemption provided in Subsections (a) and/or (b) and subject the person to
the tax that would otherwise be payable and to any interest and penalty
applicable thereto.
