                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SETTLEMENT BUREAU. (§ 21.31)

  SETTLEMENT BUREAU.
	(Added by Ord. No. 174,083, Eff. 8/19/01, Oper. 1/1/02.)	(a)	There shall be a
in the City Attorney’s office, which shall be staffed by one or more
representatives of the City Attorney.  The purpose of the Settlement Bureau
shall be to receive and respond to offers of settlement from persons who have
been assessed or otherwise billed for delinquent taxes, or who have filed claims
for refund of overpaid  taxes which have been denied in whole or in part, under
this article or Articles 1.1, 1.3, 1.7, 1.11 or 1.15 of this chapter.  The
tender of an offer of settlement shall not constitute any part of the
offeror’s administrative remedy process.  The amount of any unaccepted offer
or counteroffer of settlement shall not be disclosed by the Settlement Bureau
staff to any person outside of the Settlement Bureau, whether within or without
the City Attorney’s office, except as may be necessary to obtain approval of a
provisionally accepted settlement, as provided in subsection (c) hereof.	(b)	Any
person may tender to the Settlement Bureau an offer of settlement of a claim by
or against the City, described in subsection (a) hereof, prior to the
commencement of litigation on the merits of said claim.  Each such offer shall
be in writing and contain the amount the offeror proposes to pay to or receive
from the City and the factual and legal grounds in support of the offer.  In
response to any offer or counteroffer of settlement, the Settlement Bureau, on
behalf of the City, shall accept it, reject it or make a counteroffer.  The
terms of any settlement between the offeror and the City shall be set forth in a
written agreement executed on behalf of both parties.  The tender or pendency
of an offer of settlement in the Settlement Bureau shall not affect the timing
or disposition of any administrative proceeding under Section 21.16 of this
article.  Upon execution of a written settlement agreement on behalf of both
parties, any pending administrative proceeding on a claim which is the subject
of the settlement shall terminate.  Upon the commencement of litigation by or
against the City on the merits of a claim which is the subject of a pending
settlement offer or counteroffer, said pending offer or counteroffer shall be
deemed rejected.	(c)	Any settlement offer or counteroffer accepted by the
Settlement Bureau, which requires the approval of a person or entity, other than
the City Attorney, pursuant to Charter Section 273 or Los Angeles Administrative
Code Sections 5.173 or 5.175, shall be accepted provisionally on behalf of the
City, subject to obtaining such other required approval.
