                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

REWARDS FOR INFORMATION. (§ 21.32)

  REWARDS FOR INFORMATION.
	(Added by Ord. No. 174,088, Eff. 8/19/01.)	(a)	Reward Program.  The Director
of Finance is authorized to pay such sums as the Director deems necessary for
detecting nonpayments and underpayments of City of Los Angeles business tax. 
Any amount payable under this section shall be paid from the proceeds of the
amount collected as a result of the information provided.	(b)	Eligibility to
File Claim for Reward.  Any person, other than certain present or former City
of Los Angeles employees, who submits to the Office of Finance information
relating to the nonpayment or underpayment of business tax is eligible to file a
claim for reward under this section.  No person who was employed by the City of
Los Angeles in the Office of Finance, at the time he or she came into possession
of information relating to the nonpayment or underpayment of business tax, or at
the time he or she submitted such information to the Office of Finance, shall be
eligible for reward under this section.  Any other City officer or employee, or
former City officer or employee, is eligible to file a claim for reward if the
information submitted to the Office of Finance came to his or her knowledge
other than in the course of his or her official duties.	(c)	Submission of
Information and Filing Claim for Reward.  Any person desiring to claim a reward
under this section must submit information relating to the nonpayment or
underpayment of business tax to the Office of Finance on a form furnished by,
and in the manner prescribed by, the Director of Finance.  As early as the time
of such submission of information, but no later than one year after the City’s
recovery of unpaid or underpaid business tax pursuant to the submitted
information, the person must file a claim for reward with the City Clerk on a
form furnished by, and in the manner prescribed by, the Director of
Finance.	(d)	Payment  of Reward.  All relevant factors, including the value of
the information furnished in relation to the facts developed by the
investigation of the nonpayment or underpayment, shall be taken into account by
the Director of Finance in determining whether a reward shall be paid, and if
so, the amount thereof.  Reasons for rejecting a claim for reward include, but
are not limited to:	(1)	the information submitted by the informant was of no
value;	(2)	the information submitted by the informant was already known to the
City; and	(3)	payment would be contrary to law.	(e)	Amount of Reward.  The
amount of a reward shall represent what the Director of Finance deems to be
adequate compensation in the particular case, not to exceed 10 percent of the
additional taxes, interest and penalties which are recovered as a result of the
information.  No reward shall be paid if the Director of Finance determines
that the recovery was so small as to call for a reward of less than $50.00. 
Payment of a reward will be made as promptly as the circumstances of the case
permit, but not until the taxes, interest and penalties involved have been
collected.  However, the informant may waive any claim for reward with respect
to an uncollected portion of the taxes, interest and penalties, in which case
the claim may be immediately processed.  Only a duly authorized representative
of the Director of Finance is authorized to make any offer or promise, or
statement otherwise purporting to bind the Director of Finance with respect to
the payment of any reward or the amount thereof, and any such offer, promise or
statement must be in writing.	(f)	Protest by Informant Against Action on
Claim.  If an informant protests the action taken on the claim, the Director of
Finance or the Director’s representative may confer with the informant or his
or her representative to resolve the protest.  In the course of such
conferring, the Director or his or her representative may disclose the amount
collected pursuant to the information furnished by the informant,
notwithstanding the provisions of Section 21.17 of this article.  However, the
results of any audit or examination shall not be revealed to the informant or
his or her representative in violation of Section 21.17 of this
article.	(g)	Anonymity of Informant.  In order to fairly distribute the burden
of taxation among the subjects thereof, it is the policy of the City of Los
Angeles to encourage informants to submit information concerning unpaid and
underpaid business taxes.  In furtherance of this policy, no person shall
disclose the identity of an informant to any unauthorized person, except to the
extent required by law.  If other than the informant’s true name is used in
furnishing the information, the claimant must include with his or her claim
satisfactory proof of his or her identity as the informant.
