                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

GROSS RECEIPTS FUND CLASS 8. (§ 21.48)

  GROSS RECEIPTS FUND CLASS 8.
	(Added by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)	(a)	For every person engaged in
business providing miscellaneous services as an Advertising Agency, Aircraft
Support Contractor, Apparel Subcontractor, Bookbinder, Check Cashing Service,
Drapery Subcontractor, Heat Treater, Mailing Service, Metal Plater, Music
Teacher, Public Relations Agency, Refuse Contractor, Shoe Shining Stand, Parlor
Operator, Silk Screen Apparel Subcontractor, Temporary Help Agency, Ticket
Seller, Travel Agency, Typesetter or Wire Terminator, Tax Rate E, as set forth
in Section 21.33(e), shall be applicable.	(b)	For purposes of this section, the
following terms are defined as follows:	Miscellaneous Services means any person
engaged in business as an advertising agency, aircraft support contractor,
apparel subcontractor, bookbinder, check cashing service, drapery subcontractor,
heat treater, mailing service, metal plater, music teacher, public relations
agency, refuse contractor, shoe shining stand or parlor operator, silk screen
apparel subcontractor, temporary help agency, ticket seller, travel agency,
typesetter or wire terminator.	Advertising Agency means any person who engages
in the business of advertisement counseling, including the writing, composing,
designing and placement of advertisements for clients, regardless of the
advertising media employed; provided however that the extent the person employs
the use of his or her own media, he or she shall not be considered an
advertising agency with regard to either the promotion or placement of
advertisements in that media.	Aircraft Support Contractor means any person who
engages in the business of furnishing ground support services to airline
carriers, including the providing of ramp services, baggage and freight handling
services, ticket services, mechanical services, fueling services or other
similar services normally performed at an airport.	Apparel Subcontractor means
any person who engages in the business of cutting, sewing, or fabricating any
clothing, wearing apparel, garment, or similar material belonging to an apparel
manufacturer or pursuant to a contract with another apparel
subcontractor.	Bookbinder means any person engaged in the business of binding
books.	Check Cashing Service means any person engaged in the business of cashing
payroll checks, for a fee or charge and for every person whose business consists
in whole or in part of cashing checks for others for a fee or charge.	Drapery
Subcontractor means any person who engages in the business of cutting, sewing,
or fabricating any draperies, curtains, or similar material belonging to a
drapery manufacturer, drapery jobber, or drapery seller, or pursuant to a
contract with another drapery subcontractor.	Heat Treater means any person who
engages in the business of changing the hardness and/or strength of metal
materials of another by controlled heat process methods.	Mailing Service means
any person who engages in the business of preparing printed matter for mailing
(such as, by sorting, collating, tying, inserting, addressing, and metering),
mailing the printed matter, or providing (without selling), advising as to,
compiling, or maintaining lists of persons, businesses, or locations for use in
mailing printed matter.	Metal Plater means any person who engages in the
business of plating, anodizing or galvanizing metal articles of another
electrolysis or any other plating process.	Music Teacher means any person who
engages in the business of teaching music.	Public Relation Agency means any
person who engages in the business of promoting rapport and goodwill between a
person and other persons, special publics, or the community at large through the
distribution of interpretative material, the development of neighborly
interchange and the assessment of public reaction.	Refuse Contractor means any
person who engages in the business of hauling refuse.	Shoe Shining Stand or
Parlor Operator means any person who engages in the business of operating or
maintaining a shoe shining stand or parlor.	Silk Screen Apparel Subcontractor
means any person who engages in the business of performing silk screen printing
work upon any clothing, wearing apparel, garment, or similar material belonging
to an apparel manufacturer or pursuant to a contract with another silk screen
apparel subcontractor.	Temporary-Help Agency means any person engaged in the
business of supplying his employees to others on a temporary basis, provided
however that this term does not include an agency for the brokerage of labor for
a fee to be paid either by the applicant for employment or the prospective
employer.	Ticket Seller means any person, who engages in the business of selling
rights, evidenced by tickets, which entitle the purchaser to view, hear and/or
attend a theatrical, cultural, sporting or similar event and who does not
sponsor, promote, produce or contribute to the event.  Ticket seller includes
persons selling rights on their own account and persons selling rights as broker
or agent for another person.	Travel Agency means any person who engages in
business as a broker of travel services, and who arranges for transportation,
tours, lodging facilities, food, entertainment, and other similar accommodations
or related services.	Typesetter means any person who, as a typesetter,
compositor, typographer, or type founder, engages in the business of setting
type for another by hand, cold type process, hot metal process, photographic
process, or any other similar mechanical or photochemical “type assembly”
process.	Wire Terminator means any person who engages in the business of
connecting components and circuits of electronic panels of another configured
wiring by means of fully automatic equipment.	As used in this section, the term
“gross receipts” includes all receipts included by the provisions of
Subsection (a) of Section 21.00 of this article.  In the case of persons acting
as agents or brokers for another person, the term gross receipts includes and
excludes, respectively, those receipts that are included and excluded under
Subdivision 6. of Subsection (c) of Section 21.49, Professions and Occupations;
provided, however, that with regard to a person engaged in business as a Travel
Agency the cost of transportation, tours, lodging facilities, food,
entertainment, and other similar accommodations or services shall be deemed to
be the legal obligation of the recipient.
