                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

GROSS RECEIPTS FUND CLASS 3. (§ 21.43)

  GROSS RECEIPTS FUND CLASS 3.
	(Added by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)	For every person engaged in business
as an Antique Show or Collectors Exchange Show Promoter, Swap Meet Operator;
engaged in the business of Renting Accommodations or Residential Rentals,
Rentals of Office, Commercial Buildings, etc., Tax Rate B, as set forth on
Section 21.33(b), shall be applicable.	No registration certificate shall be
required or a tax paid by any person engaged in one or more of the businesses
described in this section, unless the total gross receipts derived from being so
engaged are equal to or in excess of $20,000.00 per calendar year.	(a)	ANTIQUE
SHOW AND COLLECTORS EXCHANGE SHOW PROMOTER.	1.	Antique show, collectors,
exchange show, antique show or collectors exchange show promoter and antique
show or collectors exchange show exhibitor shall be as defined in Article 3,
Division 9, Section 103.301.1 of this Code.	2.	In addition to the tax stated
here, there is an additional $0.59 per space for each show space rented for each
day of show operation.  The portion of the tax measured by space rentals shall
be paid to the Director of Finance on a monthly basis, and shall be delinquent
if not paid within the calendar month following the month during which the tax
is accrued, notwithstanding any other provision of this article.  If the
promoter of the antique show or collectors exchange show is an organization
otherwise exempted from the payment of taxes under this chapter, it shall be
required, notwithstanding any other provision of this article, to obtain a
business tax registration certificate and pay to the Director of Finance the
above noted space rental taxes.  The promoter must pass the space rental tax on
to the antique show or collectors exchange show exhibitor and the reimbursement
shall not be included in the promoter’s gross receipts under this
section.	3.	For the purpose of taxation of antique shows and collectors exchange
shows, the definitions contained under Rental of Office, Commercial Buildings,
etc., in this section shall apply, except that the definition of “tenant”
and “tenancy” shall include land or space on land, and is not limited to the
occupation of a building or structure or space.	(b)	SWAP MEET OPERATOR.	1.	A
swap meet operator is defined in Article 3, Division 9, Section 103.311 of the
Los Angeles Municipal Code.	2.	In addition to the tax stated here, there is an
additional $.059 per space for each swap meet space rented for each day of swap
meet operation.  The portion of the tax measured by space rentals shall be paid
to the Director of Finance on a monthly basis and shall be delinquent if not
paid within the calendar month following the month during which the tax is
accrued, notwithstanding any other provision of this article.  If the operator
of the swap meet is an organization otherwise exempted from the payment of taxes
under this chapter, it shall be required, notwithstanding any other provision of
this article, to obtain a business tax registration certificate and pay to the
Director of Finance the above noted space rental taxes.  The swap meet operator
may pass the space rental tax on to the swap meet vendor and the reimbursement
shall not be included in the swap meet operator’s gross receipts for purposes
of this section.	3.	For the purpose of taxation of swap meets, the definitions
contained under Rental of Office, Commercial Buildings, etc., in this section
shall apply, except that the definition of “tenant” and “tenancy” shall
include land or space on land, and is not limited to the occupation of a
building or structure or space.	(c)	RENTING ACCOMMODATIONS OR RESIDENTIAL
RENTALS.	1.	Renting accommodations or residential rentals means every person
engaged in the business of conducting or operating a hotel, rooming house,
boarding house, apartment house, lodging house, house court or bungalow court,
and every person engaged in the business of renting or letting rooms, apartments
or other accommodations for dwelling, sleeping or lodging in any similar place,
and every person engaged in the business of operating any public camp, or
trailer camp, park or lot where the public may rent camping, trailer or tent
space, or services provided or available in connection with that
space.	2.	Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 21.06 to the contrary, a
person required by this section to pay a tax need obtain only one registration
certificate by reason of that requirement; but he or she shall include in the
measure of the tax the gross receipts derived from all businesses taxed by this
section engaged in by him or her within the City of Los Angeles, whether at one
or more than one location.  At the time the tax provided here is remitted, the
Director of Finance may require the registrant to furnish a statement of the
number of these businesses conducted by him or her, giving the street address of
each location, the amount of gross receipts attributable to each location, and
designating a location at which the registration certificate issued shall be
posted as provided in Section 21.09.  The location so designated shall be
considered the location of the business for the purpose of Section 21.08.	3.	The
Director of Finance may require a person engaged in any business taxed by this
section to furnish information necessary in order for the Director of Finance to
determine the nature of the ownership of the business, and the amount of
interest that parties to the ownership of the business claim or possess.  Where
the Director of Finance determines that the parties claiming or possessing an
ownership interest in two or more businesses taxed by this section, one or more
of which produces less than $20,000.00 in gross receipts in a particular
calendar year, are substantially the same, he may require that the receipts of
all these businesses be used as the measure of any tax that may be due, and
issue a registration certificate and the identifying symbols as may be required
in the manner prescribed in Subsection (c)2.  Notice of the determinations made
by the Director of Finance shall be served on the persons or parties affected by
his or her determination in the same manner as notices of assessment are served
under the provisions of Section 21.16.  Any person or party affected by the
determination of the Director of Finance may protest the determination by making
written application for a hearing within ten days after the mailing or serving
of the notice of the Director of Finance’s determination.  Within 15 days
after receiving a request for a hearing, the Director of Finance shall cause the
matter to be set for hearing before a board constituted as provided in Section
21.16.  The Board shall consider the evidence, make findings, serve a copy of
the findings, and receive and consider any exceptions that may be filed, and
make any modification of its findings it may deem necessary.  Once the Board
completes those steps, the findings of the board shall be considered
final.	4.	No tax under this section shall be required to be paid by any
cooperative housing corporation by reason of its renting or letting to its
tenant-stockholders.	(d)	RENTAL OF OFFICE, COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS,
ETC.	1.	Commercial Rental means renting or letting a building or structure of
any kind on land located in the City of Los Angeles to a tenant for purposes
other than dwelling, sleeping or lodging, or renting or letting space or the use
or possession of space, or the right to use or possess space in a building or
structure to a tenant for those purposes, and for every lessor engaged in the
business of renting or letting boat slips or moorings.  Tenant and tenancy
shall include tenants and tenancies of all types, and persons occupying and the
occupation of a building or structure, or space in a building or structure under
any license or any concession agreement with a lessor. The right to use or
possess the space shall be deemed to be the same as actual occupation.	2.	The
foregoing definition includes renting and letting of every kind and character,
whether by an owner, lessee or sublessee, and licensing, and the granting of a
concession by any of them, without regard to the length of the term of the
tenancy, the date of its commencement, expiration or renewal, without regard to
the number of tenants a lessor may have, or the number of buildings or
structures, or the quantity of space in the buildings or structures, or the
number of boat slips or moorings a lessor may have available for renting or
letting to a tenant.  It shall not fail to be a commercial rental by reason of
the fact that one or more persons may reside within the building or structure
where either the primary purpose of the particular tenancy or the primary use or
right of use by the particular tenant is for some purpose other than dwelling,
sleeping or lodging.  It also shall not fail to be a commercial rental by
reason of the fact that the tenant proposes to operate or does in fact operate
the building or structure as a premises for a hotel, apartment or other
dwelling.	Commercial rental specifically does not include any of the
following:	(i)	Maintaining a storage or warehouse and required to pay a tax for
that business under other provisions of this article;	(ii)	Providing space in a
building or structure for the parking or storage of automobiles, and required to
pay a tax for that business under other provisions of this
article;	(iii)	Operating a theater, exhibition hall or any similar place of
public assemblage or entertainment, to the extent that the receipts are charges
collected from patrons for admission to the premises;	(iv)	To the extent that a
business activity includes renting to casual tenants, where casual tenant and
casual tenancy means any tenant or tenancy where the consideration paid or
agreed to be paid consists exclusively of services; or where, after examining
all the facts, the Director of Finance determines that the only tenancy is that
of one or more tenants paying to a sublessor, primarily on a cost-sharing basis
for the space used, involving less than 25% of the space under the control of
the sublessor, and is terminable at will, a business otherwise subject to tax as
a commercial rental;	(v)	A business where the gross receipts are received as
compensation for permitting coin-operated machines and devices to be placed, or
to remain on or within the premises under the control of the
lessor;	(vi)	Conducting, operating, promoting or sponsoring a bona fide trade
show as defined in Section 21.168.4(b), of this article, where the bona fide
trade show does not exceed 14 days; neither shall these persons be subject to
tax under any other provision of this article by virtue of engaging in any
activity for which an exemption is granted in this paragraph.	(vii)	Acting as an
antique show or collectors exchange show promoter or as a swap meet operator,
both of which are defined in Article 3, Division 9, Section 103.311 of this
Code.	(viii)	Renting or letting boat slips or moorings to the extent that the
boat slips or moorings are used exclusively for commercial
purposes.	3.	Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 21.06 to the contrary, a
lessor required by this section to pay a tax need obtain only one registration
certificate; but he or she shall include in the measure of the tax the gross
receipts derived from all businesses taxed by this section engaged in by him or
her within the City of Los Angeles, whether at one or more than one location. 
At the time the tax provided here is remitted, the Director of Finance may
require the registrant to furnish a statement of the number of these businesses
conducted by him or her giving the street address of each location, the amount
of gross receipts attributable to each location, and designating a location at
which the registration certificate issued shall be posted as provided in Section
21.09.  The location so designated shall be considered the location of the
business for the purposes of Section 21.08.	4.	A promoter or operator of a
consumer show, exhibition or fair shall submit to the Director of Finance a list
containing the legal name, doing business as name (DBA), business address,
mailing address and telephone number of each participating exhibitor 30 days
prior to the date of the consumer show, exhibition or fair and shall provide
each participating exhibitor with information of the City’s Business Tax
requirements.
