                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

GROSS RECEIPTS FUND CLASS 1. (§ 21.41)

  GROSS RECEIPTS FUND CLASS 1.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 181,127, Eff. 5/3/10.)	For every person engaged in
business as a Child Care Provider, Multimedia Business, Internet-based
Application Service Provider, Internet-based Data Manipulation Businesses,
Telephone Company, Tugboat and/or Barge Operator, Tax Rate A, set forth in
Section 21.33(a), shall be applicable.	(a)	CHILD CARE PROVIDERS.	1.	A child care
provider means providing non-medical care for children under 18 years of age in
need of personal services, supervision or assistance essential for sustaining
the activities of daily living or for the protection of the individual on less
than a 24-hour basis.	2.	As used in this section, the term “gross receipts”
does not include receipts of:	(i)	Community chests, funds, foundations or
corporations organized and operated for religious, hospital or charitable
purposes, not conducted for profit and no part of the net earnings of which
inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual;	(ii)	Non-profit
secondary schools, which are duly accredited by the University of California,
and receipts of non-profit elementary schools in which instruction is given to
students in the pre-primary and primary grades in the several branches of
studies required to be taught in the public schools of the State of
California;	(iii)	Rotary, Kiwanis and Lions Clubs, non-profit automobile clubs,
chambers of commerce, and other community service organizations; also receipts
of trade associations such as Merchants Plumbers Association, Merchants and
Manufacturers Association and labor organizations.	(b)	MULTIMEDIA
BUSINESSES.	1.	A multimedia business means a business that produces films,
disks, tapes, software or other recording devices, whether visual or audio,
through the integration of two or more media, which media include, without
limitation, computer generated graphics and video, film, slides, video tapes,
audio tapes and photographs or provides computer programming services on a
contract or fee basis to the producer of these media.  These services shall
include computer software design and analysis, modification of custom software,
digital imaging and other related programming services, the development of
online and internet services and the design of web sites for clients.	2.	A
multimedia business shall not include a business that utilizes multimedia to
sell goods or further its business, motion picture, television or radio
producers, or radio or television broadcasters, or an adult entertainment
business, as defined in Section 12.70 B. of this Code.	(c)	INTERNET-BASED
APPLICATION SERVICE PROVIDERS.	1.	An internet-based application service provider
(ASP) means a business that provides its customers access, exclusively through
the internet, to electronic applications that are available exclusively on
computer devices operated by or on behalf of the ASP.  An “electronic
application” is a computer program that provides the user with the ability to
accomplish a specific task.  An ASP shall not include a business that provides
electronic applications, including but not limited to computer software, for
customers to download through the internet.  A business does not qualify as an
ASP unless its internet-based electronic application provides information to the
user directly without any substantial intermediation by any person except for
technical support related to the use of the electronic application.  An ASP
shall not include a business that sells electronic applications through the
internet, or any business that obtains its income from the use of its electronic
applications by itself, on its behalf, or by any related entity as defined in
section 21.00(a).	2.	An ASP business shall not include a business that utilizes
an application to sell goods or further its business, motion picture, television
or radio producers, telephone companies, or radio or television broadcasters, or
an adult entertainment business, as defined in Section 12.70 B. of this
Code.	3.	The ASP business tax classification shall apply only for the 2010,
2011, 2012, 2013, and 2014 tax years unless the Council acts by ordinance to
amend this Section and extend the length of time for which this classification
shall apply.	(d)	INTERNET-BASED DATA MANIPULATION.	1.	An internet-based data
manipulation business means a business that exclusively provides access to
internet-based applications that allow a user to search, compile, and otherwise
manipulate data, including but not limited to a business that operates or
provides access to one or several “search engines”.  A “search engine”
is an internet-based application that retrieves documents or files or data from
the internet, a computer network, a database, or other data sources. 
“Data” includes visual, numerical, and written information.  A business
does not qualify as an Internet-based Data Manipulation Business unless its
internet-based application provides information to the user directly without any
substantial intermediation by any person except for technical support related
solely to the use of the internet-based application.	2.	An internet-based data
manipulation business shall not include a business that utilizes internet-based
data manipulation to sell goods or further its business, motion picture,
television or radio producers, telephone companies, or radio or television
broadcasters, or an adult entertainment business, as defined in Section 12.70 B.
of this Code.	3.	The internet-based data manipulation business tax
classification shall apply only for the 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, and 2014 tax
years unless the Council acts by ordinance to amend this Section and extend the
length of time for which this classification shall apply.	(e)	TELEPHONE
COMPANIES.	1.	A person engaged in the business of providing telephone services
means a telephone company as the term is used in Article XIII, Section 14 of the
Constitution of California.	2.	For the purpose of this section, “gross
receipts” shall have the same meaning as in Subsection (a) of Section 21.00,
except that only those receipts derived from providing telephone services within
the City of Los Angeles shall be included, and further excepting, that only
receipts resulting from intrastate telephone services shall be included. 
“Gross receipts” shall also include receipts from the selling of advertising
or advertising space in any directory, other printed matter or any other media
only for business tax purposes commencing on or after January 1,
1984.	(f)	TUGBOAT AND BARGE OPERATORS.  Tugboat and barge operator means any
person engaged in the business of operating a tugboat or barge.
