                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

GROSS RECEIPTS FUND CLASS 9. (§ 21.49)

  GROSS RECEIPTS FUND CLASS 9.
	(Added by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)	For every person engaged in business
conducting Auto Parks, Health Maintenance Organizations, Any Trade, Calling,
Occupation, Vocation, Profession or other means of livelihood, as an independent
contractor and not an employee of another, and not specifically taxed by other
provisions of this article, Tax Rate F, as set forth in Section 21.33(f), shall
be applicable.	(a)	AUTO PARK.  Auto Park means engaged in the business of
conducting any automobile parking place, storage lot or storage place where
motor vehicles are parked or stored, and a charge is made directly or indirectly
for the parking or storage.	(b)	HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS.  Health
Maintenance Organization means engaged in business arranging for the provision
of health care services to subscribers or enrollees, or to pay for or to
reimburse any part of the cost for those services, in return for a prepaid or
periodic charge paid by or on behalf of the subscribers or enrollees.	1.	For the
purposes of this section, gross receipts of a Health Maintenance Organization,
which are attributable to a place of business within the City, shall be
apportioned by using the total cost method to determine the amount of gross
receipts that are subject to tax.  The total cost method uses a ratio to derive
a percentage that is multiplied by the total gross receipts.  The numerator of
the ratio is the total in-City costs.  The denominator of the ratio is the sum
of the total in-City costs and the total out-of-City costs.  The percentage
derived by dividing the numerator by the denominator is multiplied by the total
gross receipts to determine the amount of gross receipts that are subject to
tax.  Total costs shall include a Health Maintenance Organization’s payroll
and related costs, property and related costs, and contract health care provider
costs, incurred within and without the City.	2.	The apportionment formula set
forth in Subdivision 1. shall be applicable to all tax years not barred by the
statute of limitations on January 1, 1998.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, no
person shall be entitled to a refund for any tax year prior to 1998, due to the
application of the apportionment formula set forth in Subdivision 1.  In
computing any person’s tax liability due for tax years prior to 1998, offsets
of applicable credits not barred by the statute of limitations shall be allowed
before determining the total tax due.	3.	The Director of Finance shall levy an
assessment pursuant to Section 21.16 of this article in the amount of the
underpayment against any person who has underpaid tax for any tax year prior to
1998, to which the apportionment formula set forth in Subdivision 1. is
applicable.	4.	Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 21.05 of this Code, no
penalty shall apply, and interest shall accrue at the rate equal to the
annualized rate of return on the general pool earned by the City Treasurer for
the calendar year prior to the tax year involved, on any underpayment described
in Subdivision 3.	5.	No interest described in Subdivision 4. shall accrue during
the period commencing on January 1, 1997, and ending on June 30,
1998.	6.	Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 21.05 of this Code, the tax
under this section for the 1998 tax year shall not be delinquent until July 1,
1998, and prior to that date, no penalty shall apply and no interest shall
accrue.	(c)	PROFESSIONS AND OCCUPATIONS.	1.	Professions and Occupations means a
person engaged in any trade, calling, occupation, vocation, profession or other
means of livelihood, as an independent contractor and not as an employee of
another, and not specifically taxed by other provisions of this article.	2.	A
person engaged in more than one trade, calling, occupation, vocation, profession
or other means of livelihood embraced within this section shall consolidate all
gross receipts and shall be issued one registration certificate covering all
these activities.  Any person engaged in any activities embraced within this
section, in addition to activities covered by any other section of this article,
shall obtain separate registration certificates for the activities covered by
those other sections.	3.	As used in this section, the term “gross receipts”
does not include:	(i)	Receipts from a trade, calling, occupation, vocation,
profession or other means of livelihood, which this City is prohibited from
taxing under the Constitution or laws of the United States, or under the
Constitution or laws of the State of California;	(ii)	Receipts of community
chests, funds, foundations or corporations organized and operated for religious,
hospital or charitable purposes, not conducted for profit and no part of the net
earnings of which inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or
individual;	(iii)	Receipts of non-profit educational institutions of collegiate
grade, defined here to mean institutions incorporated as colleges or seminaries
under the laws of the State of California, which require for regular admission,
the completion of a four-year high school course, or its equivalent, and which
confer upon their graduates at least one academic or professional degree, based
on a course of at least four years in liberal arts and sciences, or on a course
of at least three years in professional studies such as law, theology,
education, medicine, pharmacy, architecture, fine arts, commerce or journalism;
receipts of non-profit secondary schools which are duly accredited by the
University of California; and receipts of non-profit elementary schools in which
instruction is given to students in the pre-primary and primary grades in the
several branches of studies required to be taught in the public schools of the
State of California;	(iv)	Receipts of Rotary, Kiwanis and Lions Clubs,
non-profit automobile clubs, Chambers of Commerce, and other community service
organizations; also receipts of trade associations such as Merchants Plumbers
Association, Merchants and Manufacturers Association and labor
organizations;	(v)	Receipts of:	a.	Railroad companies including street railways,
defined here to include interurban electric railways;	b.	Sleeping car, dining
car, drawing-room car, and palace car companies, refrigerator, oil, stock, fruit
and other car-loaning and other car companies operating upon railroads in this
City;	c.	Companies doing express business on any railroad, steamboat, vessel in
this City;	d.	Telegraph and telephone companies;	e.	Companies engaged in the
transmission or sale of gas or electricity.	(vi)	Receipts of persons acting as
agents or brokers for other persons to be paid over to those other persons, or
to pay for those other persons’ legal obligations, or as reimbursements for
sums advanced by the agent for those other persons’ legal obligations, or to
be invested on behalf of those other persons.  Notwithstanding the foregoing,
however, the term “gross receipts” includes but is not limited to:	Receipts
of any person received as commissions or fees earned, or charges of any
character made or compensation of any character received, for the performance of
any service by that person or any of that person’s employees;	Receipts of any
person received as partial or full compensation or reimbursement for salaries,
payroll taxes, free benefits and any and all similar expenses for persons who
are employees of that person under the criteria set forth in Division 4, Part 1,
Chapter 2, Article 2 of the Labor Code of the State of California as effective
on July 1, 1976.	Receipts of any person received as partial or full compensation
or reimbursement for equipment, supplies, utilities, or other items or services
acquired by that person in that person’s name and used or consumed in the
performance of services subject to tax under this section.	Provided, further,
that any agent or broker dealing in stocks or other similar written instruments
evidencing the right to participate in the assets of any business, or dealing in
bonds or other evidences of indebtedness, who also deals in that property as a
principal, shall include the gross receipts by which the tax is measured the
amount of his trading profits resulting from these dealings.  No deduction from
receipts attributable to trading as a principal shall be made unless the
deduction is provided for under Subsection (a) of Section 21.00 of this
article.	(vii)	Receipts from the publication and sale of newspapers, magazines
and other periodicals regularly issued at average intervals not exceeding three
months.  The exclusion contained in this paragraph shall apply only to business
tax periods commencing on or after January 1, 1984.	(viii)	Receipts derived by a
radio or television studio, station or network business from the production or
broadcasting of local or network radio or television programs or advertising
materials, including but not limited to the furnishing of services, program
elements or facilities in connection with the production or broadcasting;
provided, however, that nothing in this paragraph shall exempt any person from
the tax imposed under Section 21.109 or exclude from the measure of the tax any
receipts derived by any person from the operation of a television system where
the viewing audience pays a fee to view the broadcast; provided, further, that
nothing in this paragraph shall be construed as entitling any studio, station or
network business to engage in a business subject to tax under Section 21.42,
Wholesale Sales, or Section 21.47, Retail Sales, or Section 21.46, Personal
Property Rental, without paying the tax required in those sections.  The
exclusion contained in this paragraph shall apply only to business tax periods
commencing on or after January 1, 1984.	(ix)	Receipts of a person acting as a
real estate salesman as that term is defined in Section 10132 of the California
Business and Professions Code.	(x)	Receipts (whether considered in total or
measured by cost of operations in the City or any other proxy) of a mutual fund
that is registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (15
U.S.C. § 80a-1 to 80b-2), as an open-end management investment company provided
that it qualifies as a Regulated Investment Company under Subchapter M of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (26 U.S.C. § 851) (the “IRC”). 
However, Receipts of a mutual fund that fails to qualify under Subchapter M or
of a mutual fund that receives more than ten percent of its gross income from
other than qualifying sources as described in section 851(b)(2) of the IRC shall
not be excluded under this paragraph.  The exemption for qualified mutual funds
contained in this paragraph shall apply in full only to business tax periods
commencing on or after January 1, 2014, and shall be phased in as follows:  For
business tax periods commencing on or after January 1, 2012, and before January
1, 2013, said Receipts shall be taxed at 2/3 of the rate set forth in Section
21.33(f), and for business tax periods commencing on or after January 1, 2013,
and before January 1, 2014, said Receipts shall be taxed at 1/3 of the rate set
forth in Section 21.33(f).  (Added by Ord. No. 181,951, Eff. 1/8/12.)	4.	When
the gross receipts are derived from or attributable to activities engaged in
within and without the City, gross receipts shall be allocated in a manner that
is fairly calculated to determine the amount of gross receipts derived from or
attributable to engaging in business in the City.  This allocation shall be
made on the basis of payroll, value and situs of tangible property, general
expense, or by reference to any of these or other factors, or by another method
of allocation that will fairly determine the amount of gross receipts derived
from or attributable to engaging in business in the City.  Gross receipts
derived from isolated or occasional transactions at places outside the City but
within the State of California, where the registrant is not regularly engaged in
a course of business transactions shall be deemed to be gross receipts derived
from engaging in business in the City.  Gross receipts derived from or
attributable to sources within this City include:  (a) gross receipts from
tangible or intangible property located or having situs in this City; and (b),
when not contrary to law, gross receipts from any activities carried on in this
City regardless of whether carried on in interstate, intrastate or foreign
commerce.	5.	Allocation formulae designed to carry into effect the purpose of
this subsection shall be adopted by the Director of Finance by rules and
regulations.  The Director of Finance is hereby authorized, in the application
to individual cases of the rules and regulations and the formulae they contain,
to make any modifications in formulae that may be necessary to carry out the
intent of this subsection.  If the Director of Finance reallocates gross
receipts upon his or her examination of any return, he or she shall, upon the
written request of the registrant, disclose to him or her the basis upon which
the reallocation has been made.
