                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

GROSS RECEIPTS FUND CLASS 4. (§ 21.44)

  GROSS RECEIPTS FUND CLASS 4.
	(Added by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)	For every person engaged in the
business of Retail Sales, Laundry, Cleaning or Service and Shoe Repair, Tax Rate
B, as set forth in Section 21.33(b), shall be applicable.	(a)	RETAIL SALES.	1.	A
retail sale or sale at retail means a sale of goods, wares or merchandise for
any purpose other than resale in the regular course of business; provided that a
blind person need not include the first $75,000.00 of gross receipts in the
computation of the amount of tax due.  This exemption shall not subject these
persons to the provisions of Section 21.49, Professions and Occupations, of this
article.	2.	A blind person, within the meaning of this section, means a person
having not more than ten percent visual acuity in the better eye, with
correction as certified by a licensed physician and surgeon who specializes in
diseases of the eye, or the Bureau of Vocational Rehabilitation of the
Department of Education of the State of California.  The exemption provided by
this section shall not apply until a certificate of blindness has been furnished
to the Director of Finance.	3.	Whenever a person engages at the same location in
two or more businesses of the kind taxed in this section, a joint Registration
Certificate shall be issued for all these businesses and the tax shall be
measured by the sum of the gross receipts of all these businesses so
conducted.	4.	For the purpose of this section, newspapers, magazines,
periodicals, books and other printed matter shall be deemed to be included in
the term “goods, wares or merchandise” and the term “gross receipts”
means California receipts from the selling or furnishing of advertising or
advertising space in printed matter in addition to California receipts from the
sale of goods, wares or merchandise.  The provisions of this subsection shall
apply only to business tax periods commencing on or after January 1,
1984.	5.	The provisions of this section shall not apply to an exhibitor who
displays, exhibits or offers for sale or exchange any secondhand personal
property at an antique show or at a collectors exchange show, or a vendor who
sells, exchanges, displays or offers for sale or exchange new or secondhand
goods at a swap meet, as defined in Article 3, Division 9, Section 103.311 of
this Code.  This exemption applies only to that portion of an exhibitor’s or
vendor’s receipts from sales or exchanges at an antique show, collectors
exchange show or swap meet.	(b)	LAUNDRY, CLEANING OR SERVICE AND SHOE REPAIR. 
Laundry, cleaning and dyeing agent, collector, linen supply and shoe repair
means washing, ironing, drying, cleaning, dyeing, sizing, blocking or pressing
any clothing, wearing apparel, garment, linen, fabric or similar material, or
similar article of personal property, whether accomplished by hand, machine or
any coin-operated machine operated by a person, his or her employee or any
customer, or furnishing or letting the use of any towels, linens, aprons,
bedding, napkins, table covers, or any other article of personal property of a
similar nature, or collecting or delivering any similar article as an agency or
otherwise, for a fee or charge, or repairing or rebuilding shoes; provided that
a person engaged in business subject to tax under this section, makes minor
alterations or repairs to the clothing, wearing apparel, garments, linens,
fabrics or similar material being washed, ironed, dried, cleaned, dyed, sized,
blocked or pressed, in lieu of paying a separate business tax and obtaining a
separate registration certificate under this article for the conduct of each
business, may combine the gross receipts of all these businesses at that
location and upon the basis of that computation pay a combined business tax and
obtain a single registration certificate under this section for all these
businesses at that location.
