                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

GROSS RECEIPTS FUND CLASS 5. (§ 21.45)

  GROSS RECEIPTS FUND CLASS 5.
	(Added by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)	For every person engaged in the
business of Radio and Television Broadcaster, and Theater, Tax Rate B, set forth
in Section 21.33(b), shall be applicable.	(a)	RADIO AND TELEVISION
BROADCASTER.	1.	Radio Broadcaster means any person engaging in the business of
producing and broadcasting or broadcasting local or network radio programs or
advertising material, including the furnishing of services, program elements or
facilities in connection with production, production and broadcasting, or
broadcasting.	2.	Television Broadcaster means any person engaging in the
business of producing and broadcasting or broadcasting local or network
television programs or advertising materials, including the furnishing of
services, program elements or facilities in connection with production,
production and broadcasting, or broadcasting.  A “television broadcaster”
shall include any person operating a television system where the viewing
audience pays a fee to view the broadcast.	3.	When gross receipts are
constitutionally required to be apportioned and are derived from or attributable
to activities engaged in both within and without the City, gross receipts shall
be apportioned in a manner that is fairly calculated to determine the amount of
gross receipts derived from or attributable to engaging in business in the
City.  This apportionment shall be made on the basis of payroll, value and
situs of tangible property, general expense, or by reference to any of these or
other factors, or by any other method of apportionment, that will fairly
determine the amount of gross receipts derived from or attributable to engaging
in business in the City.  Gross receipts derived from or attributable to
sources within the City shall include gross receipts from any activities carried
on in this City.	4.	Notwithstanding the foregoing, the gross receipts used in
the measurement of the tax under this section shall be limited to receipts that
are generated, produced, or attributable to local activities in the State of
California.	5.	The provisions of this section shall apply only to business tax
periods commencing on or after January 1, 1984.	(b)	THEATER.  Theater Operator
means any person engaged in the business of conducting a theater containing a
permanent stage upon which movable scenery and theatrical appliances are used,
where regular theatrical or vaudeville performances are given and for the
privilege of viewing the performances, a fee is charged, collected or received,
or conducting, managing or carrying on a moving picture theater or drive-in
theater, where moving or motion pictures are exhibited and a fee is charged,
collected or received, or conducting, operating or promoting any entertainment,
show or exhibition not otherwise required to pay a tax under other provisions of
this article, where an admission fee is charged, collected or received, or where
no admission fee is charged, collected or received but donations of any kind or
character are solicited or accepted.  Provided, that in connection with any
entertainment, show or exhibition, if no admission fee is charged, collected or
received, and no donations of any kind or character are solicited or accepted,
or if the person conducting, operating or presenting the entertainment, show or
exhibition taxed under this section is a person mentioned in Section 21.49
(c)3.(iv), Professions and Occupations, or if the person is a strolling musician
who performs on sidewalks, in parks and similar publicly owned places where no
admission fee is charged, collected or received, even though donations are
solicited and collected, no tax shall be required to be paid for those
performances by that person.
