                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

GROSS RECEIPTS FUND CLASS 6. (§ 21.46)

  GROSS RECEIPTS FUND CLASS 6.
	(Added by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)	For every person engaged in the
business of Promoting or Staging Sporting Events, Operating or Maintaining
Vending Machines, Collection Agencies, Storage, Freight Forwarding/Steamship
Agency, and Personal Property Rental, Tax Rate C, as set forth in Section
21.33(c), shall be applicable.	(a)	SPORTING EVENT.  Sporting Event means the
business of promoting or staging any baseball, football, soccer, tennis, polo,
swimming, boxing, wrestling, or similar exhibition, event or contest; provided,
however, as used in this section, “gross receipts” shall not include any of
the following:	1.	Receipts from a trade, calling, occupation, vocation,
profession or other means of livelihood, which this City is prohibited from
taxing under the Constitution or laws of the United States, or under the
Constitution or laws of the State of California;	2.	Receipts of community
chests, funds, foundations or corporations organized and operated for religious,
hospital or charitable purposes, not conducted for profit and no part of the net
earnings of which inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or
individual;	3.	Receipts of non-profit educational institutions of collegiate
grade, defined here to mean institutions incorporated as colleges or seminaries
under the laws of the State of California, which require for regular admission
the completion of a four-year high school course, or its equivalent, and which
confer upon their graduates at least one academic or professional degree, based
on a course of at least four years in liberal arts and sciences, or on a course
of at least three years in professional studies such as law, theology,
education, medicine, pharmacy, architecture, fine arts, commerce or journalism;
receipts of non-profit secondary schools which are duly accredited by the
University of California; and receipts of non-profit elementary schools in which
instruction is given to students in the pre-primary and primary grades in the
several branches of studies required to be taught in the public schools of the
State of California;	4.	Receipts of Rotary, Kiwanis and Lions Clubs, non-profit
automobile clubs, Chambers of Commerce, and other community service
organizations; also receipts of trade associations such as Merchants Plumbers
Association, Merchants and Manufacturers Association and labor
organizations.	(b)	VENDING MACHINES.	1.	Vending Machine Operator means the
business of operating, maintaining or letting the use of any coin-operated
vending machine for the dispensing of goods, wares, merchandise or other
tangible property.	2.	Except as otherwise provided in this section, each
coin-operated vending machine, which is operated, maintained or used within this
City, shall have conspicuously stamped upon it or affixed on it for
identification purposes, the name and address, Business Tax Registration
Certificate number, and the telephone number, if any, of the owner or
operator.  The identification shall be provided by the owner or operator of the
machine and at his expense, notwithstanding the provisions of Section 21.06(b)
to the contrary, and shall be removed from the machine by the owner or operator
when the authority to use the machine is transferred to another person, whether
by sale, lease, license or otherwise.	3.	No business tax or identification shall
be required for the maintenance or operation of:	(i)	Any postage stamp
machine;	(ii)	Any machine dispensing sanitary or hygienic articles, or drinking
cups, towels or medicine, which machine is entirely owned and supplied by the
owner or operator of the premises where the machine is installed, and is
maintained solely for the convenience of employees, visitors or customers and,
not for profit to him or to any other person;	(iii)	Any machine, which is
entirely owned, operated and supplied by the owner or operator of the premises
where the machine is installed, and the owner or operator holds a valid
registration certificate at that location to engage in a business taxed under
the provisions of Section 21.42, Wholesale Sales or Section 21.44, Retail Sales,
of this article, and the owner or operator includes the gross receipts from the
sale of all goods, wares, merchandise or other tangible property dispensed by
the machine in the measure of the applicable business tax paid under Section
21.42, Wholesale Sales or Section 21.44, Retail Sales, of this article;	(iv)	Any
machine dispensing newspapers or other printed matter.	(c)	COLLECTION
AGENCIES.	1.	Collection agency means and includes all persons engaged directly
or indirectly and as primary or secondary object, business or pursuit, in
soliciting claims for collection or in the collection of claims owed or due or
asserted to be owned or due to another, and any person, when engaged in
collecting accounts for another, where the employment is for one or more
persons, shall be deemed to be engaged in the collection business within the
meaning of this section.  Any person using a fictitious name in collecting his
or her own accounts receivable with the intention of conveying to the debtor
that a third party has been employed, is a collection agency as contemplated by
this section and shall be subject to these provisions.  The term “collection
agency” shall not include attorneys-at-law, individuals regularly employed on
a regular wage or salary, in the capacity of credit men or in other similar
capacity upon the staff of employees of any one person not engaged in the
business of a collection agency, banks, abstract companies doing an escrow
business, duly licensed real estate brokers or agents doing a real estate
business, nor a merchant-owned non-profit credit association unless they are
conducting a collection agency.	2.	In computing the tax imposed by this section,
there shall be deducted from gross receipts the amount received as the result of
collections made outside of the State of California.	(d)	STORAGE, FREIGHT
FORWARDING.	1.	Freight Forwarding means the business of preparing the
documentation and otherwise arranging for the importation or exportation of
goods, wares or merchandise, or of collecting or consolidating for shipment in
carload lots or less, truck load lots or less, any goods, wares or merchandise,
as agent or bailee for any person where a fee is charged for that
service.	2.	Steamship Agency means the business of soliciting, receiving or
handling outbound or inbound freight aboard vessels attending to operational
requirements of vessels while they are entering, within and departing from a
port, and performing husbanding services, such as arranging for ships stores,
bunker fuel, crew changes, vessel repairs and delivery or re-delivery of vessels
pursuant to charter.	3.	Storage or Warehousing means the business of storing
goods, ware or merchandise of any kind.	(e)	PERSONAL PROPERTY
RENTAL.	1.	Personal Property Rental means the business of leasing or renting any
tangible personal property.  For the purpose of this section, Tangible Personal
Property means personal property that may be seen, weighed, measured, felt, or
touched, or which is in any other manner perceptible to the senses.	2.	Nothing
in this section shall be construed to require the inclusion of the amount
received for the leasing or renting of tangible personal property, the entire
use of which is made wholly outside the State of California.
