                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

TAXATION OF MEDICAL MARIJUANA COLLECTIVES. (§ 21.50)

  TAXATION OF MEDICAL MARIJUANA COLLECTIVES.
	(Added by Ord. No. 181,638, Eff. 4/18/11.)	(a)	No registration certificate or
permit issued under the provisions of Article 1 or Article 1.5 of Chapter 2 of
this Code, or the payment of any tax required under the provisions of Article 1
or Article 1.5 of Chapter 2 of this Code shall be construed as authorizing the
conduct or continuance of any illegal business or of a legal business in an
illegal manner.  Nothing in this section implies or authorizes that any
activity connected with the distribution or possession of cannabis is legal
unless otherwise authorized and allowed by California and federal law.  Nothing
in this Section shall be applied or construed as authorizing the sale of
marijuana.	(b)	Every person engaged in operating or otherwise conducting a
medical marijuana collective not otherwise specifically taxed by other business
tax provisions of this Chapter, shall pay a business tax of $50.00 for each
$1,000.00 of gross receipts or fractional part thereof.	(c)	For purposes of this
section, a “medical marijuana collective” means any activity regulated or
permitted by Article 5.1 of this Code or Health and Safety Code sections 11362.5
et seq., that involves planting, cultivating, harvesting, transporting,
dispensing, delivering, providing, manufacturing, compounding, converting,
processing, preparing, storing, packaging, or testing any part of the marijuana
plant for medical purposes.	(d)	For purposes of this section, “gross
receipts” includes all amounts that would be considered gross receipts under
section 21.00, including without limitation:	(i)	Membership dues;	(ii)	The value
of in-kind contributions; 	(iii)	Reimbursements provided by members, regardless
of form; and	(iv)	Anything else of value obtained by a medical marijuana
collective.	(e)	All taxpayers subject to this section must pay the full tax
imposed by this section regardless of any rebate, exemption, incentive, or other
reduction set forth elsewhere in the Municipal Code, except as required by
California or Federal Law.  No provision in the Municipal Code can lower the
tax rate set forth in this section or otherwise reduce the amount of taxes paid
hereunder unless the provision specifically states that the reduction
applies.	(f)	The City Council may impose the tax authorized by this section at a
lower rate and may establish exemptions, incentives, or other reductions as
otherwise allowed by the Charter and California law.  No action by the Council
under this paragraph shall prevent it from later increasing the tax or removing
any exemption, incentive, or reduction and restoring the maximum tax specified
in this section.
