                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEFINITIONS. (§ 21.5.02)

  DEFINITIONS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 136,867, Operative 9/1/68 by Ord. No. 137,011.)	The
following words and phrases, whenever used in this article shall be construed as
defined in this section unless it appears from the context that a different
meaning is intended.	(a)	“Sales Price” means that total amount for which
tangible personal property is sold, valued in money, whether paid in money or
otherwise, without any deduction on account of any of the following:	1.	The cost
of the property sold;	2.	The cost of materials used, labor or service cost,
interest charged, losses, or any other expenses;	3.	The cost of transportation
of the property prior to its purchase, except as excluded by other provisions of
this section.	The total amount for which the property is sold includes all of
the following:	1.	Any services that are a part of the sale;	2.	Any amount for
which credit is given to the purchaser by the seller.	3.	The amount of any tax
imposed by the State of California that is conclusively presumed to be a direct
tax on the retail consumer precollected by the seller for the purpose of
convenience and facility only.	“Sales Price” does not include any of the
following:	1.	Cash discounts allowed and taken on sales;	2.	The amount charged
for property returned by customers when that entire amount is refunded either in
cash or credit, but this exclusion shall not apply in any instance when the
customer, in order to obtain the refund is required to purchase other property
at a price greater than the amount charged for the property that is returned.
For the purpose of this section refund or credit of the entire amount shall be
deemed to be given when the purchase price less rehandling and restocking costs
are refunded or credited to the customer.	3.	The amount charged for labor or
services rendered in installing or applying the property sold.	4.	The amount of
any federal tax, (not including, however, any manufacturers’ or importers’
excise tax) imposed upon or with respect to retail sales whether imposed upon
the retailer or upon the consumer and regardless of whether or not the amount of
federal tax is stated to customers as a separate charge, and the amount of any
California State or local sales or use tax.	5.	Separately stated charges for
transportation from the retailer’s place of business or other point from which
shipment is made directly to the purchaser, but the exclusion shall not exceed a
reasonable charge for transportation by facilities of the retailer or the cost
to the retailer of transportation by other than facilities of the retailer;
provided, that if the transportation is by facilities of the retailer, or the
property is sold for a delivered price, this exclusion shall be applicable
solely with respect to transportation which occurs after the purchase of the
property is made.	6.	The amount of any motor vehicle fee or tax imposed by and
paid to the State of California that has been added to or is measured by a
stated percentage of the sales or purchase price of a motor
vehicle.	(b)	“Use” includes the exercise of any right or power over tangible
personal property incident to the ownership of that property subject, however,
to the following exceptions:	1.	It does not include the sale of that property in
the regular course of business.	2.	It does not include the keeping, retaining or
exercising of any right or power over tangible personal property shipped or
brought into this City and which is thereafter transported outside the City for
principal use or consumption outside the City, and which property is actually so
used or consumed.	3.	It does not include the use of such property for the
purpose of being processed, fabricated, or manufactured into, attached to or
incorporated into, other tangible personal property which is to be transported
outside the City and thereafter used principally outside the City, or which is
to be subsequently sold or resold in the regular course of business.	4.	It does
not include the exercise of any right or power over tangible personal property
incident to ownership of that property if such property is shipped to a point
outside this City pursuant to the contract of sale by delivery by the retailer
to such a point by means of	(A)	facilities operated by the
retailer;	(B)	delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee
at such point; or	(C)	delivery by the retailer to a customer’s broker or
forwarding agent for shipment outside this City; or such property sold to
purchasers engaged in business wholly or partly outside the City of Los Angeles
where the property is to be transported outside the City without undue delay; to
be used only outside the City in such business. The purchaser shall deliver to
the seller such certificate or other evidence of the proposed transportation and
use mentioned herein as may be required by the rules and regulations of the
Director of Finance.
