                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SALES TAX. (§ 21.6.4)

  SALES TAX.	(a)	(1)	For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at
retail a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the City at the rate of one
per cent (1%) of the gross receipts of the retailer from the sale of all
tangible personal property sold at retail in the City of Los Angeles on and
after the operative date of this ordinance.	(2)	(Amended by Ord. No. 120,455,
Eff. 12/22/61, Operative 1/1/62.) For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail
sales are consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the
tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an
out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state
destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges,
when such charges are subject to the State sales and use tax, regardless of the
place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place
of business in the State or has more than one place of business, the place or
places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules
and regulations to be prescribed by the Board of Equalization.	(b)	(1)	Except as
hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the
provisions of Part 1.5 of Division 2 of the said Revenue and Taxation Code, all
of the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of said Code, as amended and in force
and effect on April 1, 1956, applicable to sales taxes are hereby adopted and
made a part of this section as though fully set forth herein.	(2)	Wherever, and
to the extent that, in Part 1 of Division 2 of the said Revenue and Taxation
Code the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the
City of Los Angeles shall be substituted therefor. Nothing in this subdivision
shall be deemed to require the substitution of the name of the City of Los
Angeles for the word “State” when that word is used as part of the title of
the State Controller, the State Treasurer, the State Board of Control, the State
Board of Equalization, or the name of the State Treasury, or of the Constitution
of the State of California; nor shall the name of the City be substituted for
that of the State in any section when the result of that substitution would
require action to be taken by or against the City or any agency thereof, rather
than by or against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions
incident to the administration or operation of this ordinance; and neither shall
the substitution be deemed to have been made in those sections, including, but
not necessarily limited to, sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the
State of California, where the result of the substitution would be to provide an
exemption from this tax with respect to certain gross receipts which would not
otherwise be exempt from this tax while those gross receipts remain subject to
tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the said
Revenue and Taxation Code; nor to impose this tax with respect to certain gross
receipts which would not be subject to tax by the State under the said
provisions of that Code; and, in addition, the name of the City shall not be
substituted for that of the State in Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last
sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 and 6828 of the said Revenue and
Taxation Code as adopted.	(3)	If a seller’s permit has been issued to a
retailer under Section 6067 of the said Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional
seller’s permit shall not be required by reason of this section. (Amended by
Ord. No. 145,139, Eff. 11/4/73, Operative 1/1/74.)	(4)	There shall be excluded
from the gross receipts by which the tax is measured:	(i)	The amount of any
sales or use tax imposed by the State of California upon a retailer or
consumer.	(ii)	Receipts from sales to operators of common carrier and waterborne
vessels of property to be used or consumed in the operation of such common
carriers or waterborne vessels principally outside the City. (Former (ii)
Repealed and Replaced by Former (iii), Ord. No. 120,455, Eff. 12/22/61.
Operative 1/1/62.)	(4.5)	(Amended by Ord. No. 158,588, Eff. 12/29/83, Oper.
1/1/84.) There shall be excluded from the gross receipts by which the tax is
measured:	(i)	The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the State of
California upon a retailer or consumer.	(ii)	The gross receipts from the sale of
tangible personal property to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed
principally outside the city in which the sale is made and directly and
exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or
property under the authority of the laws of this state, the United States, or
any foreign government.	*(4.5)	There shall be excluded from the gross receipts
by which the tax is measured:	(i)	The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by
the State of California upon a retailer or consumer.	(ii)	The gross receipts
from the sale of tangible personal property to operators of waterborne vessels
to be used or consumed principally outside the city in which the sale is made
and directly and exclusively in the carriage of persons or property in such
vessels for commercial purposes.	(iii)	The gross receipts from the sale of
tangible personal property to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed
principally outside the city in which the sale is made and directly and
exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers or persons or
property under the authority of the laws of the state, the United States, or any
foreign government.	*  The provisions of this Subparagraph (4.5) shall become
operative on the operative date of any act of the Legislature of the State of
California which amends or repeals and re-enacts Section 7202 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code to provide an exemption from city sales and use taxes for
operators of waterborne vessels in the same or substantially the same language
as that existing in subdivisions (i)(7) and (i)(8) of Section 7202 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code as those subdivisions read on October 1, 1983.
