                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

USE TAX. (§ 21.6.5)

  USE TAX.	(a)	An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other
consumption in the City of Los Angeles of tangible personal property purchased
from any retailer on or after the operative date of this ordinance, for storage,
use or other consumption in the City at the rate of one per cent (1%) of the
sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when
such charges are subject to State sales or use tax regardless of the place to
which delivery is made.	(b)	(1)	Except as hereinafter provided, and except
insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.5 of Division 2
of the said Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1, Division
2 of said Code, as amended and in force and effect on April 1, 1956, applicable
to use taxes are hereby adopted and made a part of this section as though fully
set forth herein.	(2)	Wherever, and to the extent that, in Part 1 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code the State of California is named or referred to
as the taxing agency, the name of the City shall be substituted therefor.
Nothing in this subdivision shall be deemed to require the substitution of the
name of the City for the word “State” where the word is used as part of the
title of the State Controller, the State Treasurer, the State Board of Control,
the State Board of Equalization, or the name of the State Treasury, or of the
Constitution of the State of California, nor shall the name of the City be
substituted for that of the State in any section where the result of that
substitution would require action to be taken by or against the City or any
agency thereof rather than by or against the State Board of Equalization, in
performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this
ordinance, and neither shall the substitution be deemed to have been made in
those sections, including but not necessarily limited to sections referring to
the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the
substitution would be to provide an exemption from the tax with respect to
certain storage, use or other consumption or tangible personal property which
would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such storage, use or other
consumption remains subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1
of Division 2 of the said Revenue and Taxation Code, or to impose this tax with
respect to certain storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal
property which would not be subject to tax by the State under the provisions of
that Code, and in addition, the name of the City shall not be substituted for
that of the State in Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof).
6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 and 6828 of the said Revenue and Taxation Code as adopted
and the name of the City shall not be substituted for the word “State” in
the phrase “retailer engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203 nor
in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203. (Amended by Ord. No. 120,455,
Eff. 12/22/61.)	(3)	There shall be exempt from the tax due under this
section:	(i)	The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the State of
California upon a retailer or consumer.	(ii)	The storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property, the gross from the sales of which has
been subject to sales tax under a sales and use tax ordinance enacted in
accordance with Part 1.5 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code by any
city and county, county, or city in this State. (Amended by Ord. No. 120,455,
Eff. 12/22/61, Operative 1/1/62.)	(iii)	The storage or use of tangible personal
property in the transportation or transmission of persons, property or
communications, or in the generation, transportation or distribution of
electricity, or in the manufacture, transportation or distribution of gas in
intrastate, interstate or foreign commerce by public utilities which are
regulated by the Public Utilities Commission of the State of
California.	(iv)	The use or consumption of property purchased by operators of
common carrier or waterborne vessels to be used or consumed in the operation of
such common carriers or waterborne vessels principally outside the
City.	(3.5)	(Amended by Ord. No. 158,588, Eff. 12/29/83, Oper. 1/1/84.) There
shall be exempt from the tax due under this section:	(i)	The amount of any sales
or use tax imposed by the State of California upon a retailer or
consumer.	(ii)	The storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal
property, the gross receipts from the sale of which has been subject to sales
tax under a sales and use tax ordinance enacted in accordance with Part 1.5 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code by any city and county, county, or
city in this state.	(iii)	In addition to the exemptions provided in Sections
6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, the storage, use, or other
consumption of tangible personal property purchased by operators of aircraft and
used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such
aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation
under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the
laws of this state, the United States, or any foreign government.	*(3.5)	There
shall be exempt from the tax due under this section:	(i)	The amount of any sales
or use tax imposed by the State of California upon a retailer or
consumer.	(ii)	The storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal
property, the gross receipts from the sale of which has been subject to sales
tax under a sales and use tax ordinance enacted in accordance with Part 1.5 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code by any city and county, county, or
city in this state.	(iii)	The storage, use or other consumption of tangible
personal property purchased by operators of waterborne vessels and used or
consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the carriage of persons
or property in such vessels for commercial purposes.	(iv)	In addition to the
exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, the storage, use, or other consumption of tangible personal property
purchased by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such operators
directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of
persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public
convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this state, the United
States, or any foreign government.	*  The provisions of this Subparagraph (3.5)
shall become operative on the operative date of any act of the Legislature of
the State of California which amends or repeals and re-enacts Section 7202 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code to provide an exemption from city sales and use
taxes for operators of waterborne vessels in the same, or substantially the
same, language as that existing in subdivisions (i)(7) and (i)(8) of Section
7202 of the Revenue and Taxation Code as those subdivisions read on October 1,
1983.
