                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

COIN-OPERATED SCALES AND SERVICE MACHINES. (§ 21.65.1)

  COIN-OPERATED SCALES AND SERVICE MACHINES.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 178,101, Eff. 1/9/07.)	(a)	For every person engaged in the
business of operating, maintaining or letting the use of any coin operated
scales, weighing device, baggage checking device, radio, television, or any
other coin-operated machine or device, and not otherwise specifically taxed or
specifically exempted from tax under any other section of this article, whether
or not of the same general character as those specifically enumerated here,
which renders any service or furnishes any program or information in return for
a coin or token of value and is installed or maintained for profit or gain, the
tax shall be $22.17 per year or fractional part for each machine or
device.	(b)	Except as otherwise provided in this section, each coin-operated
machine or device described in Subsection (a) that is operated, maintained or
used within this City shall have conspicuously stamped upon it or affixed on it
for identification purposes, the name and address, Business Tax Registration
Certification number, and the telephone number, if any, of the owner or
operator.  The identification shall be provided by the owner or operator of the
machine or device, at his or her expense, notwithstanding the provisions of
Section 21.06(b) to the contrary, and shall be removed from, the machine or
device by the owner or operator when the authority to use the machine or device
is transferred to another person, whether by sale, lease, license or
otherwise.	(c)	Exemptions.  Nothing contained in this section shall be
construed to require the payment of any business tax for any coin-operated
machine or device used in the operation of any automatic telephone, or any coin
box for the receipt of fares on any carrier, or any coin receiving device the
use of which is merely incidental to the conduct of a business operating under
any franchise or specifically taxed by other provisions of this article.
