                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEFINITIONS. (§ 21.7.2)

  DEFINITIONS.	Except where the context otherwise requires, the definitions
given in this section govern the construction of this article.	(a)	Person. 
“Person” means any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture,
association, social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company,
corporation, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate or any
other group or combination acting as a unit.	(b)	Hotel.  “Hotel” means any
structure, or any portion of any structure, which is occupied or intended or
designed for occupancy by transients for dwelling, lodging or sleeping purposes,
and includes any hotel, inn, tourist home or house, motel, studio, hotel,
bachelor hotel, lodging house, rooming house, apartment house, dormitory, public
or private club, or other similar structure or portion thereof, and shall
further include any trailer court, camp, park or lot where trailer spaces, or
combinations of such spaces and trailers, including mobile homes, are occupied
or intended or designed for occupancy by transients for dwelling, lodging or
sleeping purposes.	(c)	Occupancy.  “Occupancy” means the use or possession,
or the right to the use or possession of any room or rooms or space or portion
thereof, in any hotel for dwelling, lodging or sleeping purposes. The use or
possession or right to use or possess any room or any suite of connecting rooms
as office space, banquet or private dining rooms, or exhibit, sample or display
space shall not be considered “occupancy” within the meaning of this
definition unless the person exercising occupancy uses or possesses, or has the
right to use or possess all or any portion of such room or suite of rooms for
dwelling, lodging or sleeping purposes.	(d)	Transient.  (Amended by Ord. No.
164,961, Eff. 7/24/89, Oper. 8/1/89.)  “Transient” means:	1.	Any person,
other than an individual, who exercises occupancy or is entitled to occupancy by
reason of concession, permit, right of access, license or other agreement, for
any period of time, or	2.	Any individual who personally exercises occupancy or
is entitled to occupancy by reason of concession, permit, right of access,
license or other agreement, for a period of 30 consecutive calendar days or
less, counting portions of calendar days as full days.  Any such individual so
occupying space in a hotel shall be deemed to be a transient until the period of
30 days has expired unless there is an agreement in writing between the operator
and the occupant providing for a longer period of occupancy.	Nothing in this
definition or in this article shall be construed as prohibiting the operator of
a hotel from refunding or making an allowance of credit to a person who has paid
tax as required by this article where it is established that the person was not
a “transient” as defined in this section or was exempt from the tax for any
other reason, or had for any reason overpaid the tax.	(e)	Rent. “Rent” means
the consideration charged, whether or not received, for the occupancy of space
in a hotel valued in money, whether to be received in money, goods, labor or
otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits and property and services of
any kind or nature, without any deduction therefrom whatsoever. Nothing in this
definition shall be construed to mean that rent is charged directly or
indirectly for the occupancy of space in a hotel when that space is provided to
the occupant as a compliment from the operator and where no consideration is
charged to or received from any other person.	(f)	Operator.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 176,005, Eff. 7/7/04.)  “Operator” means the person who is either the
proprietor of the hotel or any other person who has the right to rent rooms
within the hotel, whether in the capacity of owner, lessee, mortgagee in
possession, licensee or any other capacity.  The owner or proprietor who is
primarily responsible for operation of the hotel shall be deemed to be the
principal operator.  If the principal operator performs or assigns its
functions, in whole or in part, through a managing agent, a booking agent, a
room seller or room reseller, or any other agent or contractee, including but
not limited to on-line room sellers, on-line room resellers, and on-line travel
agents, of any type or character other than an employee, those persons shall be
deemed to be secondary operators.A secondary operator shall be deemed an
operator for purposes of this article and shall have the same duties and
liabilities as the principal operator, including but not limited to the
collection and remittance of the full amount of the tax owed under the
provisions of this article to the City.  A secondary operator may satisfy its
obligations under the provisions of this article by submitting the full amount
of tax due under this article, with credit for any taxes remitted to any other
operator, either directly to the Director of Finance or through the principal
operator.  The principal operator may satisfy any potential liability it may
have for taxes owed by a secondary operator by entering into a legally binding
agreement with that secondary operator to remit the portion of the tax owed by
the secondary operator directly to the City.  Upon request, the principal
operator shall provide the Director of Finance with copies of any such
agreements.Compliance with the provisions of this article by either the
principal operator or the secondary operator shall be deemed compliance by both
and no provision of this article shall be deemed to require the payment and/or
remittance of any amount other than the full amount of the tax owed by the
transient.
