                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

POWER TO REVOKE AND SUSPEND PERMITS OR CERTIFICATES – PROCEDURE. (§ 22.02)

  POWER TO REVOKE AND SUSPEND PERMITS OR CERTIFICATES – PROCEDURE.	Any permit
or certificate granted pursuant to the provisions of this Code to any person to
conduct, carry on or engage In any business, profession, trade or occupation by
any Board, Commission or other person having authority to do so, unless
provision is otherwise specifically made, shall not be revoked or suspended
except as provided in this section.	No such permit or certificate shall be
revoked or suspended until a hearing upon written notice to the permittee or
certificate holder shall have been had by the Board, Commission or other person
having authority to do so. Written notice of such hearing shall be served upon
the permittee or certificate holder in the manner provided for the giving of
notice in Section 11.00 of this Code.	Such notice shall state:	(a)	The grounds
for complaint or reasons for the revocation or suspension in clear and concise
language.	(b)	The time when and the place where such hearing is to be held.	If a
verified complaint is required to be filed with the Board, Commission or other
person having authority to revoke or suspend such permit or certificate, or if
any Board or Commission shall have power to initiate its own complaint, then a
true and correct copy of such complaint shall be served on the permittee or
certificate holder in lieu of stating the grounds of complaint. However, notice
of the time when and the place where such hearing is to be held shall be served
with such complaint.	Such notice or copy of complaint shall be served or given
to the permittee or certificate holder at least five (5) and not more than ten
(10) days prior to the date set for said hearing.	At any such hearing the
permittee or certificate holder shall be given an opportunity to be heard and
defend himself, and he may call witnesses in his behalf.	The Board, Commission
or other person conducting such hearings may continue such hearings from time to
time upon good cause being shown therefor.	After conducting such hearing the
Board, Commission or other person having authority may suspend or revoke any
such permit or certificate upon such terms and conditions as, in the exercise of
a reasonable and sound discretion, it shall determine.	Revocation of permit
granted by it by a municipal board is a proper exercise of police power.
	Vaughn v. Board of Police Commissioners, 59 Cal. App. 2d 771, 775.
