                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

LICENSES – VETERAN’S EXEMPTIONS. (§ 22.11)

  LICENSES – VETERAN’S EXEMPTIONS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 173, 587, Eff. 12/7/00.)	(a)	(Amended by Ord. No. 127,508,
Eff. 6/29/64.) Every honorably discharged soldier, sailor or marine of the
United States who is unable to obtain his livelihood by manual labor shall have
the right to hawk, peddle and vend any goods, wares or merchandise, except
spirituous, malt, vinous, mixed or other intoxicating liquors, without payment
of any license or fees required by this code or ordinance of this city providing
for the payment of such license fee. A certificate of disability by a surgeon of
the United States Army or Navy, or by the police surgeon of this city, or any
physician regularly employed in the receiving hospital of this city, shall be
sufficient proof of such disability. A certificate of honorable discharge from
the United States Army or Navy, or an exemplified copy thereof, shall be
sufficient proof of such service and honorable discharge, and upon presentation
of the same it shall be the duty of the Office of Finance to issue a license
without cost to such a soldier, sailor or marine.	The fact that Section 22.11
exempts a person from having to pay for a license does not excuse one from
obtaining a license.
	People v. Fitzgerald, CR A 1942.	(b)	Each and every license issued under the
provisions of this section shall not be transferable and shall be for the
exclusive use of the person whose name is inserted therein. Such person shall be
required to write his name on the margin of such license and on the stub
retained by the Office of Finance at the time such license is issued. Such
person shall be required to furnish to the Office of Finance at the time of
application for such license, two copies of a photograph of himself. It shall be
and hereby is made the duty of the Office of Finance to satisfy himself by
proper examination and investigation that the same photograph is a true likeness
of the person who makes the application and whose name appears in the discharge
and in the physician’s certificate. One copy of said photograph shall be
attached to the license and the other shall be attached to the stub written by
the Office of Finance. The photograph shall at all times be kept attached to the
license, and any license found without such photograph attached thereto shall be
taken up and be forfeited and the person to whom said license is issued, and the
holder thereof, shall forthwith surrender all rights thereunder and shall not
again be entitled to any license.	Such person shall identify himself by his
signature whenever required so to do by any police officer, license inspector,
license collector or other officer of the City. Should any such license be found
in the possession of any person other than the person named therein it shall be
taken up, surrendered to the Office of Finance and cancelled, and the holder
thereof shall not again be entitled to a license under this section.	Whenever
the holder of any license uses any wagon, cart, tray, basket or other vehicle or
receptacle in vending any goods, wares or merchandise such license shall be
inserted, held and carried in a license holder to be furnished by the Office of
Finance, and in the manner prescribed by law.	Every license issued under the
provisions of this section shall be issued for a period of one year from date of
issuance thereof. Upon the expiration of any license, as herein provided, a new
license shall be issued under the provisions of this section. Not more than one
license shall be issued to any discharged soldier, sailor or marine during any
one calendar year from the date of the original license.	(c)	No person, except
the person named in such license, shall use or have in his possession any
license issued under the provisions of this section.	(d)	No person shall sell,
purchase or transfer any license issued under the provisions of this section or
transfer or convey the discharge or certificate mentioned herein to any other
person for the purpose of securing the license herein provided for.
