                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

HAND-BILLS, SIGNS – PUBLIC PLACES AND OBJECTS. (§ 28.04)

  HAND-BILLS, SIGNS – PUBLIC PLACES AND OBJECTS.	(a)	No person shall paint,
mark or write on, or post or otherwise affix, any hand-bill or sign to or upon
any sidewalk, crosswalk, curb, curbstone, street lamp post, hydrant, tree,
shrub, tree stake or guard, railroad trestle, electric light or power or
telephone or telegraph or trolley wire pole, or wire appurtenant thereof or upon
any fixture of the fire alarm or police telegraph system or upon any lighting
system, public bridge, drinking fountain, life buoy, life preserver, life boat,
or other life saving equipment, street sign or traffic sign.	The prohibition of
the ordinance applies to telephone poles owned by public utilities as well as
poles owned by some political entity, and is a valid exercise of the police
power.
	People v. Kaplan, CR A 1623.	(b)	Nothing in this section contained shall apply
to the installation of terrazo sidewalks or sidewalks of similar construction,
sidewalks permanently colored by an admixture in the material of which the same
are constructed, and for which the Board of Public Works has granted a written
permit.	(c)	Removal of Signs – Costs and Penalties.  (Amended by Ord. No.
180,998, Eff. 1/4/10.)	(1)	Any hand-bill or sign found posted or otherwise
affixed upon any public or utility property contrary to the provisions of this
section may be removed by any company, utility, organization, or individual
owning or responsible for maintaining that property, the Police Department or
the Department of Public Works.  The person responsible for any such illegal
posting shall be liable for an administrative penalty and for the cost incurred
in the removal thereof, and the Department of Public Works is authorized to
effect the collection of said administrative penalty and costs incurred by the
City of Los Angeles.  The first violation of Subsection (a) in a calendar year
is subject to an administrative monetary penalty not to exceed $100.00. 
Subsequent violations in the same calendar year will result in a second penalty
not to exceed $250.00.  The penalty for the third administrative violation in a
calendar year is $500.00.  More than three administrative fines in one calendar
year shall result in the violation being charged as a misdemeanor in Superior
Court and subject to all penalties applicable to criminal violations.  The
Bureau of Street Services is authorized assess a processing fee established by
the Board of Public Works, subject to the approval of the City Council for all
citations with an administrative monetary penalty.	(2)	For purposes of this
subsection, there shall be a presumption that:	(i)	the real estate agent,
broker, brokerage firm or other person whose name or telephone number appears on
the hand-bill or sign is the person responsible for posting a hand-bill or sign
advertising property for sale, lease or rent;	(ii)	the candidate seeking office
is the person responsible for posting a hand-bill or sign promoting the
candidate for public office;	(iii)	the owner, or lessee if the property is
leased, of property used for a yard or garage sale is the person responsible for
posting a hand-bill or sign advertising a yard or garage sale;	(iv)	the owner,
or lessee if the property is leased, of property used for a commercial activity
or event is the person responsible for posting a hand-bill or sign advertising
the subject commercial activity or event;	(v)	the person whose name, telephone
number or address appears as the sponsor for a sporting event, concert,
theatrical performance, or similar activity or event is the person responsible
for posting a hand-bill or sign advertising the subject activity or event;
and;	(vi)	the person whose name, telephone number or address appears as the
person to contact on any hand-bill or sign posted is the person responsible for
having posted the same.	For purposes of this subsection, the person presumed to
be responsible for posting a hand-bill or sign on public or utility property may
rebut such presumption by declaring under penalty of perjury or swearing under
oath that the person did not cause, authorize, allow or permit the posting of
the hand-bill or sign on public or utility property.	(3)	With the concurrence of
the City Administrative Officer, the Board of Public Works shall determine the
verifiable costs to the City of Los Angeles incurred in removing hand-bills and
signs pursuant to this section.  Such costs shall include, but not be limited
to, direct labor, material and equipment costs, as well as departmental and
general City overhead costs attributable to the removal of signs.  Prior to the
beginning of each fiscal year, the Board shall adopt a schedule of charges which
persons responsible for the illegal posting of hand-bills and signs are required
to pay pursuant to this subsection, based on those costs.  The schedule of
charges shall be subject to approval by the City Council.	(4)	All administrative
penalties collected pursuant to this section shall be used for enforcement
activities by the Bureau of Street Services, Investigation and Enforcement
Division.	(5)	Persons billed for the costs and penalties of removing hand-bills
or signs may appeal such costs and charges to the Board of Public Works in
accordance with rules adopted by the Board.	(d)	Nothing in this section shall
apply to the installation of a metal plaque or plate or individual letters or
figures in a sidewalk commemorating an historical, cultural, or artistic event,
location or personality for which the Board of Public Works, with the approval
of the City Council, has granted a written permit.  (Amended by Ord. No.
109,896, Eff. 9/28/57.)	(e)	Nothing in this section shall apply to the painting
of house numbers upon curbs done under permits issued by the Board of Public
Works under and in accordance with the provisions of Section 62.96 of this
Code.  (Added by Ord. No. 122,905, Eff. 10/26/62.)	(f)	Nothing in this section
shall prohibit the installation of signs on street lighting posts provided the
sign is a part of a program sponsored by a City Department having specific
responsibility for public safety and such signs and locations are approved by
the Department of Public Works and are installed and maintained as authorized in
Section 80.07 of this Code. Any fees previously paid for such installation shall
be refunded upon application to the Department of Transportation for such refund
by the person or persons who made the payment to the City. Such person or
persons shall declare under penalty of perjury that any money received by he,
she, or them, shall, in turn, be paid to those persons who provided funds to the
applicant to make such payment to the City and further that if the applicant is
not able, for any reason, to make such reimbursement to any such person, the
applicant, shall return, within 60 days said respective sum to the City.
(Amended by Ord. No. 158,469, Eff. 12/23/83.)	(g)	(Added by Ord. No. 173,343,
Eff. 7/15/00.)  Nothing in this section shall prohibit the installation of
signs on street lighting posts relating to the operation of the street lighting
system.
