                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SIDEWALKS, PEDESTRIAN SUBWAYS – LOITERING. (§ 41.18)

  SIDEWALKS, PEDESTRIAN SUBWAYS – LOITERING.	(a)	No person shall stand in or
upon any street, sidewalk or other public way open for pedestrian travel or
otherwise occupy any portion thereof in such a manner as to annoy or molest any
pedestrian thereon or so as to obstruct or unreasonably interfere with the free
passage of pedestrians.  (Amended by Ord. No. 137,269, Eff. 10/21/68.)	Whether
or not a defendant’s acts “in any manner hindered or obstructed the
free-passage” of persons passing is clearly a question of fact for the jury.
	People v. Firestone, CR A 518.	Where free-passage along sidewalks is obstructed
by persons listening to what is said at a street-meeting, the persons conducting
said meeting cannot be convicted of a violation of this section in the absence
of other facts.
	People v. Yoneda, CR A 249.	(b)	No person shall loiter in any tunnel,
pedestrian subway, or on any bridge overpass, or at or near the entrance thereto
or exit therefrom, or at or near any abutment or retaining wall adjacent to such
entrance or exit, or any retaining wall or abutment adjacent to any freeway,
street or highway open and used for vehicular traffic, or adjacent to that
portion thereof used for vehicular traffic, or on any public property in the
proximity of such bridge, overpass, or retaining wall or abutment.	Sec. 41.18
has not been preempted by State Legislation encompassing loitering offenses.
	Gleason v. Municipal Court (April 1964), 226 Cal. App. 2d-226 ACA 701.	(c)	No
person in or about any pedestrian subway, shall annoy or molest another or make
any remark to or concerning another to the annoyance of such other person, and
no person shall commit any nuisance in or about such subway.	(d)	(Amended by
Ord. No. 137,269, Eff. 10/21/68.)  No person shall sit, lie or sleep in or upon
any street, sidewalk or other public way.	The provisions of this subsection
shall not apply to persons sitting on the curb portion of any sidewalk or street
while attending or viewing any parade permitted under the provisions of Section
103.111 of Article 2, Chapter X of this Code; nor shall the provisions of this
subsection apply to persons sitting upon benches or other seating facilities
provided for such purpose by municipal authority or permitted by this Code.
