                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

TRESPASS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY. (§ 41.24)

  TRESPASS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
	(Added by Ord. No. 168,500, Eff. 2/4/93.)	(a)	No person shall enter or be
present upon any private property or portion of private property not open to the
general public without the consent of the owner, the owner’s agent, or the
person in lawful possession, where signs forbidding entry are displayed as
provided in Subsection (f).	(b)	No person shall enter upon any private property
or portion of private property, not open to the general public, who within the
immediately preceding six months was advised as follows: to leave and not
return, and that if he or she returns to the property within six months of the
advisement he or she will be subject to arrest.  This advisement must be made
by the owner, the owner’s agent, the person in lawful possession or a peace
officer at the request of the owner, owner’s agent or person in lawful
possession. The advisement shall be documented in writing by the individual
making it and shall include the name of the person advised, the date,
approximate time, address and type of property involved.  Such documentation
shall be retained for a minimum period of one year.  This subsection is not
violated if a person so advised enters the property within the designated six
month period, if he or she has been expressly authorized to do so by the owner,
the owner’s agent or a person in lawful possession.	(c)	Entry requiring
Express Consent of Owner.	1.	No person shall enter or be present upon private
property not open to the general public without the express consent of the owner
or the owner’s agent when that person:	A.	has been convicted of any violation
of the law involving narcotics, prostitution, vandalism, weapons, disturbance of
the peace, loitering, threat to commit a violent act, or a violent act, on that
same private property not open to the general public, whether or not such
property is posted in accordance with Subsection (f); and	B.	has, subsequent to
the conviction been told to leave and not return to that same property, by the
owner, the owner’s agent or a peace officer at the request of the owner or the
owner’s agent.	2.	The request to leave must be made within six months of the
date of the conviction and shall be documented in writing by the individual
making the request. The documentation of the request shall include the name of
the person being requested to leave, the date, the approximate time, the address
and the type of property involved.	3.	This subsection applies even if the person
has the consent of a person in lawful possession but does not apply to persons
who have a right of lawful possession to the subject property.  An individual
who has the consent of the person in lawful possession may not be refused entry
by the owner or the owner’s agent for a period exceeding twelve months,
computed from the date of the request.	(d)	No person shall enter or be present
upon any private property or portion of private property open to the general
public who within the immediately preceding 24 hours was advised to leave and
not return, and that if he or she returns to the property within 24 hours of the
advisement, he or she will be subject to arrest.  This advisement must be made
by the owner, the owner’s agent, the person in lawful possession or a peace
officer at the request of the owner, owner’s agent or the person in lawful
possession. A request to leave  may be made only if it is rationally related to
the services performed or the facilities provided.	(e)	The term “private
property” shall mean any real property, including but not limited to,
buildings,  structures, yards, open spaces, walkways, courtyards, driveways,
carports, parking areas and vacant lots, except land which is used exclusively
for agricultural purposes, owned by any person or legal entity other than
property owned or lawfully possessed by any governmental entity or
agency.	(f)	For purposes of Subsection (a), one sign must be printed or posted
in a conspicuous manner at every walkway and driveway entering any enclosed
property or portion thereof and at a minimum of every fifty feet along the
boundary of any unenclosed lot. This requirement is met if at least one sign
is  conspicuously printed or posted on the outside of every structure on such
property, so as to be readable from each walkway and driveway entering such
property. The sign shall state as follows:THIS PROPERTY CLOSED TO THE PUBLIC
No Entry Without Permission
L.A.M.C. SEC. 41.24
	The language “THIS PROPERTY CLOSED TO THE PUBLIC No Entry Without
Permission” on said sign shall be at least two inches high.	(g)	When a peace
officer’s assistance in dealing with a trespass is requested, the owner,
owner’s agent, or the person in lawful possession shall make a separate
request to the peace officer on each occasion. However, a single request for a
peace officer’s assistance may be made to cover a limited period of time not
to exceed twelve months when such request is made in writing and provides the
specific dates of the authorization period.	(h)	This section shall not apply in
any of the following instances:	(1)	when its application results in, or is
coupled with, any act prohibited by the Unruh Civil Rights Act, or any other
provision of law relating to prohibited discrimination against any
person;	(2)	when its application results in, or is coupled with, an act
prohibited by Section 365 of the California Penal Code, or any other provision
of law relating to the duties of innkeepers;	(3)	when public officers or
employees are acting within the course and scope of their employment or in the
performance of their official duties; or	(4)	when persons are engaging in
activities protected by the United States Constitution or the California
Constitution or when persons are engaging in acts which are expressly required
or permitted by any provision of law.	(i)	Violation of any of the provisions of
this section shall be a misdemeanor or an infraction.	(j)	If any part or
provision of this section, or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance, is held invalid, the remainder of the section, including the
application of that part or provision to other persons or circumstances, shall
not be affected thereby and shall continue in full force and effect.  To this
end, the provisions of this section are severable.
