                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

CUTTING INTO GASOLINE LINES PROHIBITED. (§ 41.21)

  CUTTING INTO GASOLINE LINES PROHIBITED.
	(Added by Ord. No. 152,435,* Eff. 5/30/79.)	(a)	No person shall, for the
purpose of obtaining gasoline, join any line, consisting of one or more motor
vehicles which are assembled at or approaching a gasoline service station or
other gasoline dispensing facility for the apparent purpose of obtaining
gasoline, except by joining said line behind the last person or vehicle in the
line. This prohibition shall not apply to any person who is obtaining gasoline
in a hand-carried container of two (2) gallons or less and who approaches the
gasoline service station or other gasoline dispensing facility other than in or
on a motor vehicle.	A violation of this subsection is a misdemeanor and upon
conviction is punishable by a fine not exceeding One Thousand Dollars ($1,000) 
or by imprisonment in the county jail for not to exceed six (6) months or by
both such fine and imprisonment.  (Amended by Ord. No. 160,063, Eff.
7/28/85.)	(b)	For purposes of this section, the term “gasoline” shall
include any petroleum product used as a fuel for internal combustion
engines.	(c)	Every person who owns, operates, manages, leases or rents a
gasoline station or other facility offering for sale, selling or otherwise
dispensing gasoline to the public shall continue to have available on such
premises, upon having received from the City an initial supply,  witness
forms,  prepared by the Chief of Police and subject to the approval of the City
Attorney, obtainable from the City, to be completed by witnesses to a violation
of this section.	A violation of this subsection is an infraction punishable by a
fine not exceeding twenty dollars ($20).	* This ordinance will be effective only
as long as the Governor of the State of California’s proclamation of May 8,
1979, declaring a state of emergency in Los Angeles County because of the
gasoline shortage remains in effect.
