                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SPECIAL EVENT APPLICATION PROCESS AND DEFINITIONS. (§ 41.20.1)

  SPECIAL EVENT APPLICATION PROCESS AND DEFINITIONS.
	(Added by Ord. No. 180,881, Eff. 10/26/09.)	(a)	Definitions.  For purposes of
Sections 41.20 and 41.20.1 the following terms and phrases shall have the
meanings set forth herein:	1.	Athletic Event means an event, not involving as a
primary component, Expressive Activity, as that term is defined in Section
103.111(b), in which a group of people collectively engage in a sport or form of
physical exercise including, but not limited to, jogging, bicycling, walking,
roller skating, or running, upon any public street, sidewalk, alley or other
public place, that does not comply with normal and usual traffic regulations and
controls.	2.	Certified Farmers’ Market shall have the same meaning as set
forth in California Code of Regulations (Title III, Division 3, Chapter 1,
Subchapter 4, Article 6.5, Direct Marketing) Section 1392.2(a) as a location
approved by the County Agricultural Commissioner of that county where
agricultural products are sold by producers or certified producers directly to
consumers.  A Certified Farmers’ Market may be operated by one or more
certified producers, a non-profit organization, or a local government agency
(state, county or district).  For purposes of this Code, a Certified Farmers’
Market shall mean the direct marketing, as that term is used in the California
Code of Regulations, of agricultural products by certified producers to
consumers in accordance with the applicable provisions of the California Code of
Regulations.	3.	Charitable Event means an event, or a series of related events,
involving a subject matter of interest to a significant portion of the residents
of the City of Los Angeles all net proceeds of which, if any, will directly
benefit a charitable organization that maintains its charitable status pursuant
to Internal Revenue Code Section 501(c)(3).	4.	City of Los Angeles Special Event
means an event, or series of related events, involving a subject matter of
interest to a significant portion of the residents of the City of Los Angeles,
that is also an event officially sponsored and produced or managed using City
employees and resources by the City of Los Angeles, its operating departments,
boards, commissions or bureaus, and which is a Special Event and a
Non-Commercial Event.	5.	Citywide Special Event means a Special Event involving
a subject matter determined to be of interest to a significant number of City
residents from three or more Council Districts, as evidenced from the active
support or past attendance at the event of residents from those Council
Districts.  The Chief Legislative Analyst shall prepare a list of Citywide
Special Events anticipated to occur during the ensuing fiscal year and submit it
to the City Council for approval.  The City Council may add or remove events
from the list in its discretion.  Events included on the list of Citywide
Special Events do not thereby automatically qualify for issuance of a permit for
the event.  In each instance, a Special Event Permit Application, if
applicable, must be filed with the Bureau of Street Services.	6.	Commercial
Event means an event that does not qualify as a “non-commercial” event as
defined herein.	7.	Community Event means an event, or a series of related events
involving a subject matter of interest to a significant portion of the residents
of the City of Los Angeles that promotes civic pride in the City or in a local
community within the City, that is not a commercial event, all net proceeds of
which, if any, will directly benefit either a charitable or non-profit
organization.  Community Events include Block Parties that meet these
requirements.	8.	Non-Commercial Event means a Special Event that is open to the
public, or in the case of block parties to all residents living within the block
party area, free of charge and without restriction, sponsored and produced by a
charitable or non-profit organization, and from which no individual or other
entity receives any proceeds, or benefits from those proceeds either directly or
indirectly, other than as compensation for goods, equipment or services
provided.  At such events, advertising, sponsorship, and food and merchandise
sales shall be permitted, provided all net proceeds, if any, from such
activities are used for the benefit of a non-profit or charitable organization
or of the charitable or non-profit sponsoring organization.  The Sponsor(s) of
Non-commercial events must comply with all legal requirements, including all
applicable requirements regarding registering with the Police Commission for
charitable solicitations.  Non-Commercial Events include, but are not limited
to, Charitable Events, Community Events and City of Los Angeles Special
Events.	9.	Special Event means an event, or series of related events, of
cultural, civic, economic, social, recreational or educational nature, including
Athletic Events, sponsored by an individual or individuals, a non-profit
organization or community group, charitable organization or for-profit
organization or group, that is:  (1) held wholly or partially on property owned
or maintained by the City; or (2) held on any other property, and that requires
for its successful execution, the partial or complete closure of streets or
sidewalks or the provision and coordination of municipal services to a degree
over and above the level that the City normally provides.  Special Events also
include any other organized activity that involves the use of, or has a direct
or indirect impact on, public property or facilities or that can reasonably be
foreseen to have such an impact on, or to require a higher level of, public
safety services or other municipal services, including advance planning
services, than that normally provided by the City.  The Police Department shall
remain the permitting entity for Parades and Assemblies, as defined in Section
103.111(b) of this Code.  The City may contract for permit application
coordination services for City-issued permits for entertainment industry-related
Special Events, such as motion picture filming, television filming and
photography.  The City’s contractor, and not the One-Stop Special Events
Permit Office, will coordinate the processing of permit applications for permits
the City issues for those types of events.  In addition, the receipt,
evaluation, processing and approval of City permits for those types of events
shall be the responsibility of the City Council or of the City department or
office to which the Council, by order, resolution or ordinance has delegated, or
in the future may delegate, such authority, as provided in Sections 22.350, and
following, of the Los Angeles Administrative Code and in Section 12.22 A.13. of
this Code.	10.	Sponsor means the person(s) or entity that assumes or is charged
with the responsibility for, as well as the act of, producing or managing a
Special Event.  The Sponsor may or may not be financially responsible for the
event and may or may not be responsible for conducting or carrying out the
activities of the event.  For purposes of this definition, a person or entity
that provides only financial or in-kind support for a Special Event and has no
responsibility for producing or managing the event is not a Sponsor.  The terms
“sponsors”, “sponsored” and similar variations shall be given a meaning
consistent with this definition.	(b)	Special Events Coordination.	1.	All Parade
and Assembly Permit Applications shall be submitted to the Los Angeles Police
Department in accordance with applicable provisions of this Code.  The Police
Department shall coordinate evaluation and review of those applications,
including any requests for Special Event Fee Subsidies, with the One-Stop
Special Events Permit Office as necessary.	2.	The City may contract for permit
application coordination services for City-issued permits for entertainment
industry-related Special Events, such as motion picture filming, television
filming and photography.  The City’s contractor, and not the One-Stop Special
Events Permit Office, will coordinate the processing of permit applications for
permits the City issues for those types of events.  In addition, the receipt,
evaluation, processing and approval of City permits for those types of events
shall be the responsibility of the City Council or of the City department or
office to which the Council, by order, resolution or ordinance has delegated, or
in the future may delegate, such authority, as provided in Sections 22.350, and
following, of the Los Angeles Administrative Code and in Section 12.22 A.13. of
this Code.	(c)	Events at Major Sports and Entertainment Venues.  The types and
levels of municipal services provided for events at major venues, including but
not limited to, the Staples Center, Coliseum, Dodger Stadium, Sports Arena,
Hollywood Bowl, Greek Theatre and Kodak Theatre, and for major awards shows and
other similar events, shall be determined and provided solely within the
discretion of the City.  Applicable fees and charges, including salary costs,
for all such services, equipment and materials shall not be subsidized or waived
unless otherwise provided by contract.  If the City determines, in its own
discretion, that traffic control measures or other services are not needed at
particular venues or for specific events, the City will not provide those
services.  Should a venue or event Sponsor wish to ensure that certain types
and levels of services will be provided for purposes of an event, the venue or
event Sponsor will be required to negotiate a contract with the City to clearly
define the types and levels of services requested, and to provide for payment
for all services beyond the normal level of services which the City in its sole
discretion would have provided to meet public safety and welfare needs.  The
Sponsor of any event that involves the use of, or has a direct or indirect
impact on, public property or facilities, or that can reasonably be foreseen to
have such an impact on or to require a higher level of public safety services or
other municipal services, including advance planning services, than that
normally provided by the City, shall be responsible for obtaining all required
permits and for payment of the costs, including all fees, charges and salary
costs, for all such services.	(d)	Tracking Special Event Expenditures.  The
Bureau of Street Services shall track all funds expended for Special Events by
all City departments by Special Event.  All City departments that incur costs
and expenses for Special Events shall report on those costs and expenses on a
quarterly basis to the Bureau of Street Services. The Bureau of Street Services
shall report to the Board of Public Works and the City Council regarding all
such expenditures within forty-give (45) days after the end of each calendar
quarter.	(e)	City Equipment Cost Recovery.  In all instances, Special Event
permittees shall pay the City for the repair or replacement costs, as determined
by the Bureau of Street Services, for traffic control devices or equipment
provided for an event and not returned within 24 hours of the event, or returned
in a damaged condition, excluding reasonable wear and tear.  All payments for
damaged or lost equipment shall be made in a manner as determined by the Bureau
of Street Services, which may, and in the case of block parties shall, include a
requirement for a refundable deposit.
