                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

TRESPASS ON HOUSING AUTHORITY PROPERTY. (§ 41.23)

  TRESPASS ON HOUSING AUTHORITY PROPERTY.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 174,977, Eff. 12/29/02.)	1.	Definitions.  For purposes of
this Section:	(a)	Housing Authority means the Housing Authority of the City of
Los Angeles, its authorized agent or representative.	(b)	Occupant means a person
who is listed on a lease with the Housing Authority for the particular
Development in which the Housing Authority or a peace officer makes contact with
a Nonresident.	(c)	Nonresident means a person who is not an Occupant. 
Nonresident does not include individuals who are on the Development to carry out
constitutionally protected activities or governmental duties or are
participating in programs authorized by the Housing Authority; or are on public
property owned by the City of Los Angeles within the
Development.	(d)	Development means any Housing Authority property used primarily
for residential purposes.	(e)	Authorization means permission for a Nonresident
to enter a Development which is given either by (i) an Occupant of that
Development who is 18 years or older, identifies the authorizing party and unit
number and is specific for each entry into the Development in which the Occupant
is listed on the lease; or (ii) the Housing Authority in written form. 
Authorization from an occupant allows a Nonresident to be present only in the
following areas:  The Occupant’s unit, common areas in the building
containing the unit, access to parking for the unit, and a direct route to and
from the building where the tenant’s unit is located.  The preceding area
limitation shall not apply if, in addition to the Authorization, the Nonresident
is accompanied by an Occupant.  Authorization must be given prior to the time
the Housing Authority or peace officer makes contact with a
Nonresident.	2.	Entry into Developments.  A Nonresident shall not enter or be
present upon any Development without Authorization, where signs forbidding such
entry are displayed as provided in Subsection 3. in a conspicuous and readable
manner in the Development.  (Amended by Ord. No. 175,716, Eff.
1/31/04.)	3.	Posting of No Trespass Signs.  At least two signs shall be
conspicuously painted or posted on the outside of every Housing Authority
building that is subject to this regulation.  The letters and numbers on said
signs shall be in black lettering at least six inches high on a white background
stating:NO TRESPASSING
L.A.M.C. SEC. 41.23(Amended by Ord. No. 175,716, Eff. 1/31/04.)	4.	Entry
requiring Authorization from the Housing Authority.	(a)	Entry into a vacant or
unrented unit.  Without obtaining prior Authorization from the Housing
Authority, no person shall enter or be present in a vacant or unrented housing
unit located in the Development; and no person shall provide access by any
means, including but not limited to, keys, keycards or combinations to a vacant
or unrented housing unit located in the Development.  Prior Authorization from
the Housing Authority may be obtained from the Development manager or
designee.	(b)	Entry by a Nonresident convicted of a crime committed in any
Development.  Even with Authorization from an Occupant, a Nonresident shall not
enter or be present in the Development without the Authorization of the Housing
Authority when, within the past five years, that Nonresident has been convicted
of any violation of the law involving narcotics, prostitution, vandalism,
weapons, disturbance of the peace, loitering, threat to commit a violent act, or
a violent act, in any Development.	5.	(None.)	6.	Violations.	(a)	A violation of
any of the provisions of this section shall be a misdemeanor or an
infraction.	(b)	If any part or provision of this section, or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance, is held invalid, the remainder of the
section, including the application of that part or provision to other persons or
circumstances, shall not be effected thereby and shall continue in full force
and effect.  To this end, the provisions of this section are severable.
