                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

INTOXICATION. (§ 41.27)

  INTOXICATION.	(a)	(None)	(b)	(None)	(c)	No person shall drink any malt,
spirituous or vinous liquor containing more than one-half of one per cent of
alcohol by volume, upon any street, sidewalk or parkway, park, playground, Los
Angeles Memorial Coliseum, or in any railroad depot or bus station, or in any
public place, or in any place open to the patronage of the public, which
premises are not licensed for the consumption of such liquor on the
premises.	(d)	No person who has in his or her possession any bottle, can or
other receptacle containing any alcoholic beverage which has been opened, or a
seal broken, or the contents of which have been partially removed, shall enter,
be, or remain on the posted premises of, including the posted parking lot
immediately adjacent to, any retail package off-sale alcoholic beverage licensee
licensed pursuant to Division 9 (commencing with Section 23000) of the Business
and Professions Code of the State of California, or on any public sidewalk
immediately adjacent to the licensed and posted premises. Any person violating
any provision of this subsection shall be guilty of an infraction.  (Added by
Ord. No. 158,498, Eff. 12/31/83.)	(e)	All retail package off-sale alcoholic
beverage licensees licensed pursuant to Division 9 (commencing with Section
23000) of the Business and Professions Code of the State of California shall
install and maintain signs on the licensed premises, clearly visible to the
patrons of the licensee and to persons in or on any parking lot or public
sidewalk immediately adjacent to the licensed premises, which notify all such
persons that the provisions of Subsection (d) of this section are applicable.
Any licensee violating any provision of this subsection shall be guilty of an
infraction.  (Added by Ord. No. 158,498, Eff. 12/31/83.)	(f)	As used in
Subsections (d) and (g) of this section, “posted premises” means those
premises which are subject to licensure under any retail package off-sale
alcoholic beverage license, the parking lot immediately adjacent to the licensed
premises, and any public sidewalk immediately adjacent to the licensed premises
on which clearly visible notices have placed pursuant to the provisions of
Subsection (e) of this section.  (Added by Ord. No. 158,498, Eff.
12/31/83.)	(g)	The provisions of Subsections (d) and (e) of this section shall
not apply to a private residential parking lot which is immediately adjacent to
the posted premises.  (Added by Ord. No. 158,498, Eff. 12/31/83.)	(h)	No person
shall have in his or her possession, with intent to consume any part of the
contents thereof in any public place not licensed for the consumption thereof,
any bottle, can or other receptacle containing any alcoholic beverage which has
been opened, or a seal broken, or the contents of which have been partially
removed, upon any street, sidewalk or parkway, park, playground, Los Angeles
Memorial Coliseum, or any railroad depot or bus station, or in any public place,
or in any place open to the patronage of the public, which premises are not
licensed for the consumption of such alcoholic beverage on the premises. Any
person violating any provision of this subsection shall be guilty of an
infraction.  (Amended by Ord. No. 160,458, Eff. 11/28/85.)*	* Note: Section
41.27(h) was declared unconstitutional in People v. Duran, 43 Cal. App. 4th
Supp.1.
