                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

CLOSURE OF STREETS. (§ 41.20)

  CLOSURE OF STREETS.
	(Added by Ord. No. 150,567, Eff. 3/26/78.)	(a)	Street Closures, Special Events
Permits, and One-Stop Special Events Permit Office.  The Director of the Bureau
of Street Services has the authority to temporarily close any local street,
including collector streets, or major or secondary highway, or lane(s) thereof,
after receiving a recommendation from the Department of Transportation, when
such closing is necessary for the safety and protection of persons who are to
use that portion of the street or highway during the temporary closing.  No
person shall conduct, manage or Sponsor any Special Event without a written
permit that has been approved as required by this Section or any other
applicable Section of this Code.  No person shall participate in any Special
Event with the knowledge that its Sponsor has not been issued the required
permit.  No person shall knowingly conduct, join or participate in any Special
Event conducted under permit in violation of any of the terms of the permit, or
knowingly join or participate in any permitted Special Event without the
consent, and over the objection, of the permittee.  No person shall in any
manner interfere with the progress or orderly conduct of a permitted Special
Event.  The Sponsor of any event that involves the use of, or has a direct or
indirect impact on, public property or facilities, or that can reasonably be
foreseen to have such an impact on or to require a higher level of public safety
services or other municipal services, including advance planning services, than
that normally provided by the City, shall be responsible for obtaining all
required permits and for payment of the costs, including all fees, charges and
salary costs, for all such services.  The Board of Public Works shall establish
a One-Stop Special Events Permit Office in the Bureau of Street Services for the
issuance of all Special Event Permits, other than permits for Parades and
Assemblies as defined in Section 103.111(b) of this Code, which are to be issued
by the Los Angeles Police Department, and other than as provided for
entertainment industry-related Special Events such as motion picture filming,
television filming and photography in Section 41.20.1, subsection (d).  Except
as expressly provided herein, the Bureau of Street Services, through the
One-Stop Special Events Permit Office, shall be the permitting office for all
Special Events, including Athletic Events.  The Police Department shall remain
the permitting entity for Parades and Assemblies, as defined in Section
103.111(b) of this Code.  The provisions of this Section and of Section 41.20.1
shall not eliminate or affect the requirements for, or related to, permits, fees
or charges for events on property controlled by the departments of Recreation
and Parks, Library, Water and Power, Harbor and Airports, nor shall they negate
any requirements to obtain permits, as applicable, from the City’s regulatory
departments (e.g., Fire Department, Police Department, Building and Safety
Department), and to pay the applicable fees and charges.  (Amended by Ord. No.
180,881, Eff. 10/26/09.)	(b)	Application for Permit.  (Amended by Ord. No.
180,881, Eff. 10/26/09.)  Applications for Special Events, including those
requiring street closures of local streets, including collector streets, and of
major and secondary highways, or lane(s) thereof, shall be filed with the
One-Stop Special Events Permit Office in the Bureau of Street Services at least
forty-five (45) days prior to the expected first day of the Special Event. 
Beginning on January 1, 2010, and thereafter, there shall be a non-refundable
administrative late fee of $312 for all applications submitted twenty-one days
or less before an event.  The Bureau of Street Services shall establish
notification procedures to immediately notify the respective Council office as
well as all affected City departments and offices and affected non-City
government agencies, if known, the Los Angeles Police Department, the
appropriate Neighborhood Council, if any, and the Business Improvement District,
if any, in which a proposed event is to be held, whenever a Special Event Permit
application is submitted to the Bureau for processing.  The respective Council
office and all affected City departments and offices shall be provided a copy of
the permit application for their review and comment.  The Council office and
every other office and department shall be responsible for notifying the Bureau
of Street Services in writing or electronically of any objection to, or
condition required for, the issuance of the permit for the Special Event.  Upon
issuance of a Special Event Permit, each of those City departments and offices
shall be provided a copy of the permit issued and shall be responsible for
enforcement of the terms and conditions of the permit that are within the
subject matter jurisdiction of that department or office.  Special Event
Permits shall be issued for the dates of the event and necessary days for setup
and take-down.  Special Event Permits issued for recurring Certified Farmers’
Markets sponsored by a non-profit organization or a local government agency
(state, county or district) may be issued for all events on the days specified
for up to one year.  Applications for Special Event Permits may be filed
directly at the One-Stop Special Events Permit Office or may be completed and
submitted on-line through the City’s web-based Special Events Permit
Application.  Any changes made by the applicant to the initial Special Event
Permit Application or Site Plans for the event will require payment of a $100,
non-refundable, processing fee.  Decisions to deny or to condition the issuance
of a Special Event Permit which are contested by the applicant shall be reviewed
as set forth in Section 41.20.1.	The Bureau of Street Services shall develop a
“How to Obtain a Special Event Permit Application” informational brochure
with updates, as appropriate, and make the information available on the City’s
web site, at public counters, and through Neighborhood Councils.	If the Special
Event is designed to be held by, on behalf of, or for any organization other
than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a communication in
writing from the organization authorizing the applicant to apply for the permit
on its behalf.  The Bureau of Street Services shall take reasonable steps to
verify that information.	(c)	Permit Fees and Charges.  Issuance of all Special
Event Permits shall be subject to payment in advance or at the time the permit
is issued of all applicable fees and charges, including salary costs, for
required City services, equipment and materials.  Except as expressly provided
by ordinance, no subsidy or waiver of any fees or charges shall be provided by
the City for City permits, equipment, materials or services for any Special
Event.  If the actual fees and charges for the event are less than the
estimated amount paid by the permittee, the permittee shall be refunded the
difference.  If the actual fees and charges for the event are greater than the
estimated amount paid by the permittee, the permittee shall be billed for and
required to pay the difference within fifteen (15) calendar days of receipt of
an invoice therefor.  (Amended by Ord. No. 180,881, Eff.
10/26/09.)	(d)	Conditions for Granting Permits.  (Amended by Ord. No. 180,881,
Eff. 10/26/09.)	1.	The Board of Public Works shall approve the forms to be used
by the Bureau of Street Services for Special Event Permit applications and
Special Event Permits and shall adopt written procedures and requirements to be
applied by the Bureau of Street Services for the granting of permits, including
but not limited to the requirement of adequate barricades, lights and warning
devices to be provided and maintained during a street closure, other traffic
control measures, cleaning deposit, charges for sanitary units and barricades,
insurance and other fees and charges.  In addition to any other information
determined to be required by the Board, the Special Event Permit application
shall require, as applicable, the following information:	A.	The date(s) and
time(s) of the event;	B.	The assembly area, or event area, as applicable;	C.	The
start time(s);	D.	The minimum and maximum speed(s) for the event, if
applicable;	E.	The exact route of the event, if applicable;	F.	The portions of
streets to be traversed by the event, if applicable;	G.	The disbanding area and
disbanding time, or ending time, as applicable;	H.	The number of persons
required to officiate or monitor the event;	I.	The number and types of vehicles,
if any; 	J.	The material and maximum size and dimensions of all signs, banners,
placards, or carrying device(s) therefore;	K.	The number, type, dimensions and
locations of booths, stages, structures of any kind, and equipment to be used
for the event, if applicable; and	L.	The type(s) and capacity of sound
amplification equipment and systems to be used for the event, if
applicable.	2.	The following criteria shall be included among all the relevant
criteria used in reviewing applications for Special Event Permits:	A.	Location
and surrounding area at which the event is to take place;	B.	Dates, number of
hours, time(s) of day, the number of days an event will be held and the impact
on the public and the community;	C.	Inclusion of information on the Special
Events Permit Application as to whether the event provides a social, economic,
cultural, or educational benefit to the community;	D.	Consideration of traffic
in the area where, and on the days and times when, the proposed event will be
held, and the impact of the event on residential and business access in the
area;	E.	Anticipated impacts of the event on activity and noise levels in
residential and business areas;	F.	Availability of personnel and other resources
needed from the Police, Building and Safety, Fire, Transportation, General
Services, and Cultural Affairs departments and from the Bureaus of Street
Services, Street Lighting and Sanitation;	G.	Number of participants expected to
attend the event;	H.	The number and nature of other events occurring at
approximately the same time, and in the same area of the proposed
event;	I.	Conditions existing within the surrounding area that when occurring in
conjunction with the event or with a proposed street closure, may create a
severe hardship or an unnecessary inconvenience to the community and the general
public;	J.	The history and experience of the applicant and organizer in
conducting special events of the type proposed;	K.	The results of petitions,
required or otherwise, circulated in residential and commercial areas impacted
by the event;	L.	Construction activities in the proposed area of the
event;	M.	Comments and other input from Neighborhood Councils and BIDs in the
areas impacted by the event.	3.	The Sponsor of a Special Event, including a
Certified Farmers’ Market, shall obtain a Business Tax Registration
Certificate, as required by applicable law, and shall ensure that a City
Business Tax Registration Certificate is obtained by every event participant, as
required by applicable law.	4.	Any unresolved issues regarding the issuance of a
permit shall be resolved as set forth in Subsection (e) of this Section.	5.	Upon
the request of the Bureau of Street Services with respect to an application for
a Special Event Permit, the Department of Transportation and each of the other
affected City departments shall provide to the Bureau of Street Services a
statement of the estimated fees and charges, including salary costs, for
providing traffic control services (traffic control costs) or other services, as
applicable, for the event.  The Bureau of Street Services shall provide to the
permittee a statement of the estimated fees and charges, including salary costs,
for all City services, equipment and materials required for the event, including
traffic control costs.  Traffic control services consist of the preparation of
the traffic management plan as well as clearing the event route or area of
unauthorized vehicles, posting any parking restrictions necessary for the event,
diverting traffic around the event, and directing pedestrian and vehicular
traffic along the route of the event.  The traffic control costs shall be
computed by determining the number of City personnel that will be required for
traffic control beyond that which would otherwise be required at that time,
multiplied by the number of hours for which those additional services are to be
rendered at the rate of the City’s full cost of providing personnel at the
respective classifications on an hourly basis.  At the conclusion of the event,
the actual costs for traffic control and for other services, as applicable, for
the event shall be determined by the Department of Transportation and each of
the other affected City departments.  If the actual costs for services for the
event are less than the estimated costs paid, the permittee shall be refunded
the difference.  If the actual costs for traffic control for the event are
greater than the estimated costs paid, the permittee shall be billed for and
required to pay the additional costs within fifteen (15) calendar days of
receipt of an invoice therefor.  Unless otherwise required to insure public
safety as determined by the Department of Transportation, the permittee for a
block party Special Event shall be allowed to pick up, place and return traffic
control devices required for the event from the Bureau of Street Services at the
nearest convenient location.  The permittee for a block party shall make a
refundable deposit of an amount determined by the Bureau of Street Services to
be reasonable to insure return, and payment for any damage to, all traffic
control devices provided for the event.	6.	Following approval of a Special Event
Permit, but ten days prior to the start date for the event, the permittee shall
provide a cleanup deposit in an amount established in a cleanup fee schedule
adopted by the Board of Public Works.  The cleanup deposit shall be returned to
the permittee after the event if the area used for the event has been cleaned
and restored to the same condition as existed prior to the event, as determined
by a representative of the Bureau of Street Services.  If the property used for
the event has not been cleaned and restored to the condition that existed prior
to the event, the permittee shall be billed for and required to pay the actual
cost of the cleanup and restoration, and the cleanup deposit shall be applied
toward the total amount of those costs.  If there is a balance remaining in the
cleanup deposit after the cleanup and restoration costs are paid, the balance
shall be refunded to, or credited to the account of, the permittee.  If the
permittee disputes the amount of the charges for cleanup and restoration, the
applicant may appeal to the Board of Public Works within five days after receipt
of the bill.  The decision of the Board on such appeals shall be
final.	(e)	Special Events Permit Application Evaluation.  Each application for
a Special Events Permit shall be reviewed and evaluated by the One-Stop Special
Event Permit Office, which shall make a determination to grant the permit, to
impose conditions on the permit that may be granted, or to deny the permit all
in accordance with this Section and Section 41.20.1.  Upon a determination that
a Special Event Permit will be approved and General Liability Insurance
requirements being met, a permit shall be issued by the Bureau of Street
Services within one business day.  Upon the issuance of a permit for a Special
Event, the Bureau of Street Services shall cause the posting of the date(s),
time and location of the Special Event on the internet accessible Citywide GIS
map to avoid conflicting events at the same location.  No insurance form or
certificate other than those approved by the City Risk Manager shall be
acceptable, and the evaluation of an application may be delayed until such
documentation is submitted.  General Liability insurance is required and shall
not be waived.  If a determination is made to condition or to deny the permit
and that determination is contested by the applicant, the One-Stop Special Event
Permit Office shall consult, as necessary and appropriate, with the affected
Council District office, representatives of the Department of Public Works,
Bureaus of Street Services, Street Lighting, Engineering, and Sanitation, the
Police and Fire Departments, and the Departments of Building and Safety,
Transportation, General Services, and Recreation and Parks as well as the
Mayor’s Office, the Chief Legislative Analyst, and the City Administrative
Officer, in an effort to resolve the matter.  The One Stop Special Event Permit
Office shall conclude its consultation with those other departments and offices
and make a determination regarding the application within ten City business
days.  If after such consultation the matter is not resolved, the Director of
the Bureau of Street Services, within two business days, shall report on the
matter in writing to the Board of Public Works and recommend a course of
action.  Copies of the Director’s report shall be provided to the applicant
and to the respective Council office.  The Board shall agendize the matter of
the Special Event Permit Application at the earliest possible time, but not more
than five regular meetings following the referral by the Director, consistent
with applicable notice requirements for public meetings.  After considering the
matter and all information that it deems necessary at that meeting, or at some
subsequent meeting as determined by the Board, the Board of Public Works shall
take action to grant the permit, grant the permit with conditions, or deny the
permit.  Any such action by the Board shall be subject to the provisions of
Charter Section 245.  (Amended by Ord. No. 180,881, Eff.
10/26/09.)	(f)	(Subsec. (f) repealed, former Subsec. (g) below relettered (f) by
Ord. No. 151,482, Eff. 10/27/78.)	(f)	Posting of Signs.  Pursuant to Section
21103 of the Vehicle Code the Board shall provide for the posting of all
entrances to the street being temporarily closed signs giving notice of the
local traffic laws, such signs to be reviewed and approved by the Department of
Transportation.  (Amended by Ord. No. 151,833, Eff. 2/10/79, Oper.
2/25/79.)	(g)	Indemnification Agreement.  The Board is authorized and directed
to require that each applicant for a street closure permit execute an agreement,
in a form acceptable to the City Attorney, to indemnify and hold the City, its
officers, agents and employees, harmless from any loss, cost, expense, injury,
damage or liability of any kind caused by or resulting from the issuance of any
permit for a street closure to that applicant.  (Amended by Ord. No. 159,015,
Eff. 7/5/84.)	(h)	Required Insurance.  The Board is authorized and directed to
require that each applicant for a street closure permit maintain insurance and
provide evidence of such insurance in a form acceptable to the City Attorney,
protecting and indemnifying the City, its officers, agents and employees as
insureds against any loss, cost, expense, injury, damage or liability incurred
by reason of any personal injury or property damage sustained by any person
caused by or resulting from the issuance of the permit to that applicant. 
(Added by Ord. No. 159,015, Eff. 7/5/84.)	(i)	Insurance Program.  The Board is
authorized and directed to procure and maintain, when such is available, a
blanket policy of insurance in an amount as said Board shall determine,
protecting and indemnifying the applicant and the City, its officers, agents,
and employees as insureds against a loss, cost, expense, injury, damage, or
liability incurred by reason of any personal injury or property damage sustained
by a person by or resulting from the issuance of a permit under the section when
said applicant desires such coverage. The premium shall be borne by the
applicant (permittee) and shall not be waived.  (Amended by Ord. No. 159,015,
Eff. 7/5/84.)
