                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PESTICIDES – NOTICE TO TENANTS. (§ 41.34)

  PESTICIDES – NOTICE TO TENANTS.
	(Added by Ord. No. 161,580, Eff. 9/12/86.)	(a)	If pesticides are to be used on
apartments, duplexes or other multi-family dwellings, then notice shall be
provided to the tenant of the premises for which the work is to be done. The
clear written notice shall contain the following statements and information
using words with common and everyday meaning:	1.	The pest to be
controlled.	2.	The pesticide or pesticides proposed to be used, and the active
ingredient or ingredients.	3.	City law requires that you be given the following
information:CAUTION – PESTICIDES ARE TOXIC CHEMICALS.		Structural Pest Control
Operators are licensed and regulated by the Structural Pest Control Board, and
apply pesticides which are registered and approved for use by California
Department of Food and Agriculture and the United States Environmental
Protection Agency. Registration is granted when the state finds that based on
existing scientific evidence there are no appreciable risks if proper use
conditions are followed or that the risks are outweighed by the benefits. The
degree of risk depends upon the degree of exposure, so exposure should be
minimized.		If within 24 hours following application you experience symptoms
similar to common seasonal illness comparable to the flu, contact your physician
or poison control center (telephone number) and your pest control operator
immediately. (This statement shall be modified to include any other symptoms of
overexposure which are not typical of influenza.)		For further information,
contact any of the following: Your Pest Control Operator (telephone number); for
Health Questions—the County Health Department (telephone number); for
Application Information—the County Agricultural Commissioner (telephone
number) and for Regulatory Information—the Structural Pest Control Board
(telephone number and address).	(b)	In the case of fumigation applications, the
notice, as prescribed by Subsection (a), shall be provided at least 48 hours
prior to application unless fumigation follows inspection by less than 48
hours.	In the case of general pest or termite applications, the notice, as
prescribed by Subsection (a), shall be provided no later than prior to
application. In either case, the notice shall be given to the tenant in at least
one of the following ways:	1.	First-class mail.	2.	Posting in a conspicuous
place on the real property.	3.	Personal delivery.	The notice shall only be
required to be provided at the time of the initial treatment if a contract for
periodic service has been executed. If the pesticide to be used is changed,
another notice shall be required to be provided in the manner previously set
forth herein.	(c)	The owner of the premises shall give or cause to be given the
notice as prescribed in Subsection (a) of this section.	If a structural pest
control operator, field representative or employee provides a notice pursuant to
California Business and Professions Code Section 8538, then the owner is not
required to provide the notice to the tenant as prescribed by Subsection (a) of
this section.	(d)	Any person who violates any provision of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor.
