                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

RESTROOM FACILITIES. (§ 41.47.1)

  RESTROOM FACILITIES.
	(Added by Ord. No. 163,811, Eff. 8/19/88.)	A.	For public accommodations or
facilities:  If restroom facilities are made available for the public, clients,
or employees, no person owning, controlling, or having charge of such
accommodation or facility shall prohibit or prevent the use of such restroom
facilities by a person with a physical handicap, regardless of whether that
person is a customer, client, employee, or paid entrant to the accommodation or
facility. Employee restrooms need not be made available if there are other
restroom facilities available on the premises unless employee restroom
facilities have been constructed or altered to accommodate the physically
handicapped and such facilities are not available elsewhere on the
premises.	B.	The following definitions are applicable to this section:	1.	A
person with a physical handicap includes:	a)	an individual who has an
impairment, either permanent or temporary in nature, as follows:	1)	Impairments
that affect ambulation due to cerebral palsy, poliomyelitis, spinal cord injury,
amputation, arthritis, cardiac and pulmonary conditions and other conditions or
diseases which reduce mobility, including aging;	2)	Impairments that require the
use of crutches, canes, wheelchairs, braces, walkers, or other ambulatory
assistive devices.	3)	Total blindness or impairments affecting sight to the
extent that the individual functioning in public areas may be insecure or
exposed to danger; and	4)	Deafness or hearing impairments that may expose an
individual to danger or insecurity.	b)	an individual who requests the use of the
restroom facilities and states that because of a physical infirmity he or she
requires immediate access to restroom facilities.	2.	Public accommodation or
facility means a building, structure, facility, complex, or improved area that
is used by the general public and shall include those accommodations and
facilities listed in Sections 19955 and 19955.5 of the Health and Safety
Code.	C.	Nothing in this section requires the making of structural alterations,
repairs, remodels, modifications, or additions not otherwise required by
applicable local, state and/or federal law.
