                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

MINIATURE GOLF COURSES AND DRIVING FAIRWAYS. (§ 41.44)

  MINIATURE GOLF COURSES AND DRIVING FAIRWAYS.
	(Added by Ord. No. 111,348, Eff. 7/4/58.)	(a)	Hours of Play.  No person
owning, operating, managing or conducting a miniature golf course or driving
fairway shall allow any person to play or practice upon such miniature golf
course between the hours of 2:00 o’clock A.M. and 6:00 o’clock A.M. of any
day.	(b)	Hours for Use of Mechanical Devices.  No person owning, operating,
managing or conducting a miniature golf course or driving fairway shall allow
any work or labor with instruments or mechanical devices which are propelled by
electric, steam or automotive power, to be performed upon such miniature golf
course or driving fairway between the hours of 12:30 o’clock A.M. and 7:00
o’clock A.M. of any day.	(c)	Noise Signs.  Persons owning, operating,
managing or conducting a miniature golf course shall place in a conspicuous
place on said golf course, at least four signs upon which are written in legible
English, in letters at least two inches in height, words or phrases requesting
patrons to refrain from loud talking and unnecessary noise at all times while on
the golf course. Such signs shall be placed where they can easily be seen by the
patrons.	(d)	Illumination.	1.	The playing field of a miniature golf course or
driving fairway shall not be illuminated between the hours of 2:00 o’clock
A.M. and 6:00 o’clock A.M. of any day, except with such illumination as may be
necessary only for the proper care and cleaning of such places.	2.	The
illumination of the playing field of any miniature golf course or driving
fairway shall be such that no direct rays from the reflector or source of
illumination shall fall upon any portion of any building used for living or
sleeping quarters not under the ownership or control of the owner or operator of
such golf course.	3.	Where electric lamps are used there shall be installed a
reflector of a type that shall not permit any portion of the lamp to project
beyond the plane of the opening of the reflector, if the golf course or driving
fairway is located less than 400 feet from any structure used for dwelling
purposes.	4.	The provisions of this section shall not apply to festoons or
similar lights, streamers or assemblies used for advertising or attracting
attention to such golf courses, provided that the lamps used therein do not
exceed 25 watts each and are extinguished between the hours of 11:00 o’clock
P.M. and 7:00 o’clock A.M. of the following day.	(e)	Sound Devices.  No
person shall use, operate or employ any sound amplifying system, radio or sound
producing machine, device or instrument or permit any music of any kind to be
played in or upon any miniature golf course or driving fairway between the hours
of 10:00 o’clock P.M. of any day and 7:00 o’clock A.M. of the succeeding
day.
