                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

UNAUTHORIZED REMOVAL, USE OR POSSESSION OF SHOPPING CARTS. (§ 41.45)

  UNAUTHORIZED REMOVAL, USE OR POSSESSION OF SHOPPING CARTS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 129,180, Eff. 1/30/65.)	(a)	Removal.  No person shall
remove any shopping cart, shopping basket or other similar device from the
premises or parking area of any business establishment if such shopping cart,
basket or device has permanently affixed to it a sign identifying it as
belonging to such business establishment and a notification to the effect that
such cart, basket or device is not to be removed from the owner’s
premises.	The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to removal by the
owner or his agent or an employee of the business, nor to removal by a customer
of the business possessing the written consent of its owner manager or
authorized agent.	(b)	Abandonment.  No person shall abandon or leave any such
shopping cart, shopping basket or other similar device which has been removed
from the owner’s premises upon any public street, alley, sidewalk, parkway or
other public place, nor upon any private property except that of the owner of
such cart, basket or device.	(c)	Possession.  No person shall have in his
possession any shopping cart, shopping basket or other similar device which has
been removed from the owners premises and which has permanently affixed to it a
sign identifying it as belonging to a business establishment and notification to
the effect that such cart, basket or device is not to be removed from the owners
premises.	The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to possession by the
owner or his agent or an employee of the business nor to possession by a
customer of the business possessing the written consent of its owner, manager or
authorized agent.	(d)	Use.  No person shall use any shopping cart, shopping
basket or other similar device for any purpose other than that originally
intended by such business without the owner’s written
consent.	(e)	Alteration.  No person shall alter, convert or tamper with any
shopping cart, shopping basket or other similar device or remove any part
thereof without the owner’s written consent.	(f)	Notice.  Each business
establishment owning such shopping cart, shopping basket or other similar device
shall place at each of its exits a sign notifying its customers and the general
public of the aforesaid prohibitions. Such notification shall be placed in such
a position and be of sufficient size and legibility so as to insure that persons
leaving such places of business shall be fully informed of the prohibitory
provisions contained in this section.	(g)	Fine.  Notwithstanding any other
provisions of this Code to the contrary the violation of any of the provisions
or the failure to comply with any of the mandatory requirements of this section
shall be punishable only by a fine of not more than $50.00.
