                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DOOR TO DOOR SELLING OR SOLICITING. (§ 41.43.1)

  DOOR TO DOOR SELLING OR SOLICITING.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 181,642, Eff. 5/31/11.)	No person shall solicit, sell or
offer to sell, demonstrate or take orders for the sale of goods, wares or any
form of merchandise, by entering upon the premises of another for such purpose
except in compliance with the provisions of this
Section.	(a)	“Solicitation”.  As used in this Section, shall mean to sell
or offer to sell, demonstrate or take orders for the sale of goods, wares or any
form of merchandise or services.	(b)	No person shall enter upon the premises of
another for the purpose of solicitation between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 8:00
a.m. of the following day.	(c)	Any person over the age of 16 who engages in
door-to-door solicitations shall carry a form of photo identification and must
present such photo identification upon request of any person being solicited,
any peace officer or other person charged with enforcement of the laws
pertaining to such solicitations.  The photo identification must include the
person’s date of birth and be issued by a governmental agency or educational
institution.  Acceptable identification includes a state driver’s license,
state identification card, school identification card, or any government issued
identification card.	(d) 	Any person engaged in door-to-door solicitations shall
present the original or a copy of the Business Tax Registration Certificate 
required under Los Angeles Municipal Code Section 21.06 upon request of any
person being solicited, any peace officer, or other person charged with
enforcement of the laws pertaining to such solicitations.	(e)	The provisions of
this Section shall not apply to vendors or solicitors who have previously been
invited or requested to appear at such premises by the owner or lawful occupant
thereof, or to persons making charitable solicitations in accordance with
Article 4 of Chapter IV of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.
