                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

NOISE DUE TO CONSTRUCTION, EXCAVATION WORK – WHEN PROHIBITED. (§ 41.40)

  NOISE DUE TO CONSTRUCTION, EXCAVATION WORK – WHEN PROHIBITED.	(a)	No person
shall, between the hours of 9:00 P.M. and 7:00 A.M. of the following day,
perform any construction or repair work of any kind upon, or any excavating for,
any building or structure, where any of the foregoing entails the use of any
power driven drill, riveting machine excavator or any other machine, tool,
device or equipment which makes loud noises to the disturbance of persons
occupying sleeping quarters in any dwelling hotel or apartment or other place of
residence. In addition, the operation, repair or servicing of construction
equipment and the job-site delivering of construction materials in such areas
shall be prohibited during the hours herein specified. Any person who knowingly
and wilfully violates the foregoing provision shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable as elsewhere provided in this Code.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 158,587, Eff. 1/29/84.)	(b)	The provisions of Subsection (a) shall not apply
to any person who performs the construction, repair or excavation work involved
pursuant to the express written permission of the Board of Police Commissioners
through its Executive Director.  The Executive Director, on behalf of the
Board, may grant this permission, upon application in writing, where the work
proposed to be done is in the public interest, or where hardship or injustice,
or unreasonable delay would result from its interruption during the hours
mentioned above, or where the building or structure involved is devoted or
intended to be devoted to a use immediately related to public defense.  The
provisions of this section shall not in any event apply to construction, repair
or excavation work done within any district zoned for manufacturing or
industrial uses under the provisions of Chapter I of this Code, nor to emergency
work necessitated by any flood, fire or other catastrophe.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 178,160, Eff. 2/12/07.)	(c)	(Amended by Ord. No. 166,170, Eff. 9/29/90.) 
No person, other than an individual homeowner engaged in the repair or
construction of his single-family dwelling shall perform any construction or
repair work of any kind upon, or any earth grading for, any building or
structure located on land developed with residential buildings under the
provisions of Chapter I of this Code, or perform such work within 500 feet of
land so occupied, before 8:00 a.m. or after 6:00 p.m. on any Saturday or
national holiday nor at any time on any Sunday. In addition, the operation,
repair or servicing of construction equipment and the job-site delivering of
construction materials in such areas shall be prohibited on Saturdays and on
Sundays during the hours herein specified. The provisions of this subsection
shall not apply to persons engaged in the emergency repair of:	1.	Any building
or structure.	2.	Earth supporting or endangering any building or
structure.	3.	Any public utility.	4.	Any public way or adjacent earth.	(d)	The
provisions of Subsection (c) shall not apply to construction work done on the
Metro Rail Project and the tunnel-station portions of the Los Angeles-Long Beach
Rail Project between Sixth to Twelfth Streets, provided however that this
construction work shall not include the utilization of soldier pile drilling,
vibrating hammer driving, blasting, or any construction activities that will
exceed the ambient noise levels as provided in the action of the Police
Commission, pursuant to Subsection (b) above, granting a variance for this
work.  In addition, this construction work will be subject to all the
conditions of the conditional variance granted by the Board through its
Executive Director.  This section shall have no force or effect upon completion
of the construction work described here.  (Amended by Ord. No. 178,160, Eff.
2/12/07.)	(e)	The provisions of this section shall not apply to construction
work done by CALTRANS to repair the collapsed sections of the Santa Monica
Freeway within a one mile radius of the intersection of Interstate 10 and
Fairfax Avenue.  This section shall have no force and effect upon completion of
the construction work herein described.  (Added by Ord. No. 169,669, Eff.
5/13/94.)	(f)	The provisions of this section shall not apply to construction
work done by the County of Los Angeles in connection with Phases 2 and 3 of Unit
5 of the Hollyhills Storm Drain Project, including the installation of temporary
bridges and any other structures necessary to regulate or direct traffic because
of the storm drain construction.  Unit 5 construction is within the area
bounded by Beverly Boulevard, 3rd Street, La Cienega Boulevard and San Vicente
Boulevard.  Phases 2 and 3 involve several underground concrete structures to
be built in and around the intersection of La Cienega and San Vicente
Boulevards.  This section shall have no force and effect upon completion of the
construction work herein specified.  (Added by Ord. No. 172, 091, Eff.
7/3/98.)	(g)	The provisions of Subsection (c) shall not apply to construction
work undertaken from March 31, 2000 to August 20, 2000 that must be done prior
to the Democratic National Convention, provided however that such construction
work will be subject to all conditions established by the Los Angeles Police
Department Noise Enforcement Team, in  1)  the downtown area bounded by Union
Street on the west, Washington on the south, San Pedro on the east, and 101
Freeway on the North, including but not limited to work undertaken in compliance
with construction permits issued by the Bureau of Engineering, water line
improvements/installation, sewer construction, fiber optic installation, and
street paving or is associated with the Convention such as installation and
removal of security barriers and fencing and  2)  the Windward Plaza area of
Venice Beach, between 18th Place and Horizon Avenue from the western border of
Ocean Front Walk to the beach, for the Venice Beach Ocean Front Walk
Refurbishment Project under the direction of the City of Los Angeles Department
of Recreation and Parks Department.  This section shall have no force and
effect after August 20, 2000.  (Added by Ord. No. 173,154, Eff.
4/30/00.)	(h)	The provisions of Subsection (c) shall not apply to the
construction work done by the City of Los Angeles in connection with the portion
of the Stone-Hollywood Trunk Line from Stone Canyon Reservoir service area to
the Hollywood Reservoir service area as part of the Hollywood Water Quality
Improvement Project undertaken on Pico Boulevard, including all structures and
operations necessary for construction and/or to regulate or direct traffic due
to construction activities.  This section shall have no force and effect upon
completion of the construction work herein specified.  (Added by Ord. No.
173,746, Eff. 1/23/01.)	[(i)	None.]	(j)	As determined by the Executive Director
of the Board, the provisions of Subsection (c) shall not apply to major public
works construction by the City of Los Angeles and its proprietary Departments,
including all structures and operations necessary to regulate or direct traffic
due to construction activities.  The Board, through its Executive Director,
pursuant to Subsection (b) will grant a variance for this work and construction
activities will be subject to all conditions of the variance as granted. 
Concurrent with the request for a variance, the City Department that will
conduct the construction work will notify each affected Council district office
and established Neighborhood Council of projects where proposed Sunday and/or
Holiday work will occur.  (Amended by Ord. No. 178,160, Eff.
2/12/07.)	(k)	Noise Variance Application Fee.  Any application to the Board for
a noise variance under Subsection (b) shall be accompanied by payment of an
application fee of $233.00.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,338, Eff. 11/13/10.)
