                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SMOKING PROHIBITED IN DESIGNATED AREAS. (§ 41.50)

  SMOKING PROHIBITED IN DESIGNATED AREAS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 159,498, Eff. 12/15/84.)	A.	Definitions.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 181,065, Eff. 3/8/10.)  The following words and phrases, whenever used
in this ordinance shall be construed as hereinafter set out, unless it shall be
apparent from the context that they have a different meaning.	1.	“Bar” shall
mean an indoor area utilized primarily for the serving of alcoholic beverages
and in which the service of food is only incidental to the consumption of such
beverages.	2.	“Employee” shall mean any person who is employed by any
employer in consideration for monetary compensation or profit.	3.	“Employer”
shall mean any person, partnership, corporation, excluding municipal
corporation, who employs the services of more than four persons.	4.	“Place of
employment” shall mean any enclosed area under the control of a public or
private employer which employees normally frequent during the course of
employment, including, but not limited to, work areas, employee lounges,
conference rooms, and employee cafeterias.  A private residence is not a place
of employment.	5.	“Service Line” shall mean any indoor line at which one or
more persons are waiting for or receiving service of any kind, whether or not
such service involves the exchange of money.	6.	“Smoke” or “Smoking”
shall include the carrying or holding of a lighted pipe, cigar or cigarette of
any kind, or any other lighted smoking equipment or the lighting or emitting or
exhaling the smoke of a pipe, cigar or cigarette of any kind.	7.	“Outdoor
dining area” shall mean for purposes of this section an outdoor area:	a.	Of a
business, such as a restaurant, that is dedicated by the business as a place for
the consumption of food or drinks that are regularly sold or provided by that
business, and all non-enclosed areas within ten feet thereof;	b.	That is
dedicated by the person authorized to manage or control the area as a place for
the consumption of food or drinks that are regularly sold or provided by one or
more nearby businesses, such as a food court, and all non-enclosed areas within
ten feet thereof; or	c.	Within a forty foot radius of a business, such as a food
kiosk, food cart or mobile food truck, that regularly sells or provides food or
drinks but has no outdoor area dedicated by the business as a place for the
consumption of food or drinks that are regularly sold or provided by that
business.	d.	However, an outdoor dining area shall not include an area that is
contiguous to one of the following:	(i)	A bar, or a nightclub that requires that
its patrons be eighteen or older; or	(ii)	A restaurant, business or
non-commercial building that is completely closed to the public for a private
event.	B.	Prohibition:  It shall be unlawful to smoke in the following
places:	1.	Those portions of any building, structure or other enclosed facility
open to the general public for the primary purpose of exhibiting any motion
picture, stage production, musical recital, or similar performance. However,
smoking may be permitted in designated areas of lobbies. (Added by Ord. No.
162,989, Eff. 1/7/88.)	2.	Any room, chamber, indoor place of meeting or indoor
public assembly, wherein public business is conducted and which is open to
members of the general public either as participants or as spectators. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 164,776, Eff. 6/3/89.)	3.	Those areas within the buildings
or structures of any health care facility which are open to visitors to the
premises except that in such areas there may be enclosed areas designated and
set aside on each floor where smoking may be allowed.	4.	Any retail food
marketing establishments including grocery stores and supermarkets except those
areas of such establishments set aside for the serving of food and drink,
restrooms, and offices  and areas thereof not open to the public.	5.	Service
lines in those areas of buildings open to the public, except those lines in
stores specializing in the sale of tobacco products.  (Added by Ord. No.
162,989, Eff. 1/7/88.)	6.	Those indoor areas of libraries, museums and art
galleries open to the public.  (Added by Ord. No. 162,989, Eff.
1/7/88.)	7.	Those indoor areas of retail stores open to the public, except
retail stores specializing in the sale of tobacco products.  (Added by Ord. No.
162,989, Eff. 1/7/88.)	8.	Indoor polling places.  (Added by Ord. No. 162,989,
Eff. 1/7/88.)	9.	Those indoor areas normally occupied by children in private
elementary and secondary schools, private child day care facilities as defined
in Section 1596.750 of the Health and Safety Code, and private residences
licensed as child day care facilities during the hours of operation as such a
facility.  (Added by Ord. No. 162,989, Eff. 1/7/88.)	10.	(Amended by Ord. No.
168,844, Eff. 8/2/93.)	a.	Indoor restaurants, except as set forth in paragraphs
b and c below.	b.	Restaurants with a seating capacity of more than 50 persons
located in a dance club, excluding from that calculation of capacity any portion
of such facility which is located outdoors and/or which is utilized as a bar,
shall have a portion of the dining area designated as a non-smoking area.  The
non-smoking area required by this paragraph must be a contiguously maintained
indoor area comprised of at least 50% of both the seating capacity and floor
space of the area in which customers are being served.	c.	The prohibition set
forth in paragraphs a and b above, shall not apply to any portion of a
restaurant which is utilized as a bar, or to any rooms which are being used for
private functions, but only while any such rooms are used for such private
functions.	11.	Those portions open to the general public of any arena, gymnasium
or other similar enclosed building designed primarily for the purpose of
observing sports events. However, smoking may be permitted in designated areas
of lobbies.  (Added by Ord. No. 162,989, Eff. 1/7/88.)	12.	Train, cruise ship,
and bus depot waiting areas and ticket lines as regulated pursuant to Health and
Safety Code Section 25949.4.  Violation of, or failure to comply with the
provisions of Health and Safety Code Section 25949.4 shall be punishable as set
forth in Health and Safety Code Section 25949.8.  (Amended by Ord. No. 170,386,
Eff. 3/17/95.)	13.	(Amended by Ord. No. 170,386, Eff. 3/17/95.)  Any portion of
a building owned by the City of Los Angeles, and those portions of a building
leased by the City of Los Angeles, except that:	a.	Waiting areas and ticket
lines in the Los Angeles Harbor cruise ship terminals shall be regulated as set
forth in Subdivision 12. above, and	b.	Restaurants in any building owned by the
City of Los Angeles or in those portions of a building leased by the City of Los
Angeles shall be regulated as set forth in Subdivision 10. above.	14.	Airport
ticket lines as regulated pursuant to Health and Safety Code Section 25949.4,
and public circulation areas and public waiting room areas (except for intransit
lounges which shall be 75% by area, no smoking).  It is the purpose of this
Subdivision to prohibit, pursuant to the authority contained in Health and
Safety Code Section 25949.6, smoking in airport public circulation areas, and
airport public waiting room areas.  Violation of, or failure to comply with the
provisions of Health and Safety Code Section 25949.4 shall be punishable as set
forth in Health and Safety Code Section 25949.8.  (Added by Ord. No. 170,386,
Eff. 3/17/95.)	15.	Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph c. of Subdivision
10. of Subsection B. and Subsection F. of Section 41.50, smoking shall be
prohibited in bars located in airport terminals.  (Added by Ord. No. 170,386,
Eff. 3/17/95.)	16.	(Repealed by Ord. No. 179,058, Eff. 9/18/07.)	17.	City
permitted farmer’s markets as defined in Section 12.24 X.6.  (Added by Ord.
No. 180,200, Eff. 11/2/08.)	18.	Outdoor dining areas.  (Added by Ord. No.
181,065, Eff. 3/8/10.)	a.	Exception.  The prohibition against smoking within
the ten foot non-enclosed areas described in Sections 41.50 A.7.a. and 41.50
A.7.b. shall not apply to persons briefly passing by.	b.	Grace Period.  A one
year grace period shall follow the effective date of this ordinance to permit a
period of public education.	(i)	Within thirty days of the effective date of this
subsection:	(1)	Any business with an outdoor dining area as defined in Section
41.50 A.7.a., such as a restaurant, shall post a notice near an entrance, exit,
or cashier area in size 14 font or larger that is clearly visible and readable
to a majority of its customers that shall remain posted through the end of the
one year grace period and state:“Beginning [DAY AFTER GRACE PERIOD ENDS],
smoking is prohibited in the outdoor dining area of this business during its
hours of operation, and within ten feet of it, by order of the City of Los
Angeles.”	(2)	Any business that provides food or drink that is regularly
consumed in a nearby outdoor dining area as defined in Section 41.50 A.7.b.,
such as a food court, shall post a notice near an entrance, exit, or cashier
area in size 14 font or larger that is clearly visible and readable to a
majority of its customers that shall remain posted through the end of the one
year grace period and state:“Beginning [DAY AFTER GRACE PERIOD ENDS], smoking
is prohibited in the outdoor dining area near this business during its hours of
operation, and within ten feet of it, by order of the City of Los
Angeles.”	(3)	Any person authorized to manage or control an outdoor dining
area as defined in Section 41.50 A.7.b., such as a food court, shall post enough
notices in size 14 font or larger to ensure that their message is clearly
visible and readable to most diners in the outdoor dining area, and most persons
passing outdoors within ten feet of it, that shall remain posted through the end
of the one year grace period and state: “Beginning [DAY AFTER GRACE PERIOD
ENDS], smoking is prohibited in this outdoor dining area during its hours of
operation, and within ten feet of it, by order of the City of Los
Angeles.”	(4)	Any business with an outdoor dining area as defined in Section
41.50 A.7.c., such as a food kiosk, food cart or mobile food truck, shall post a
notice near the cashier area in size 14 font or larger that is clearly visible
and readable to a majority of its customers that shall remain posted through the
end of the one year grace period and state:“Beginning [DAY AFTER GRACE PERIOD
ENDS], smoking is prohibited within forty feet of this business during its hours
of operation, by order of the City of Los Angeles.”	(ii)	To continue the
public education process, all businesses or persons subject to this subsection
are encouraged but not required to continue posting the required notice for a
reasonable period after the grace period ends.	(iii)	The no-smoking provisions
of this subsection shall not be enforced during the one year grace
period.	c.	Permanent Signs.	(i)	By the end of the one year grace period, the
following shall comply with the requirements of Section 41.50 D.1.b., except
that the words “in this outdoor dining area or within ten feet of it” shall
immediately follow the required “NO SMOKING” phrase or international
no-smoking symbol,  and need not comply with the 5 feet to 8 feet posting
requirement as long as they are of sufficient number and locations to ensure
that their message is clearly visible and readable to most diners in the outdoor
dining area, and most persons passing outdoors within ten feet of it:	(1)	Any
business with an outdoor dining area as defined in Section 41.50 A.7.a., such as
a restaurant; or	(2)	Any person authorized to manage or control an outdoor
dining area as defined in Section 41.50 A.7.b., such as a food court.	(ii)	By
the end of the grace period, any business with an outdoor dining area as defined
in Section 41.50 A.7.c., such as a food kiosk, food cart or mobile food truck,
shall comply with the requirements of Section 41.50 D.1.b., except that it shall
post only one sign, which shall be located near the cashier, shall include the
words “within forty feet of this business” immediately following the
required “NO SMOKING” phrase or international no-smoking symbol, and need
not comply with the 5 feet to 8 feet posting requirement as long as the sign’s
message is clearly visible and readable to a majority of its
customers.	d.	Penalties.  Failure to comply with any of the requirements of
this Section 41.50 B.18. shall be an infraction, as provided for in Section
41.50 H.4.	C.	Regulation of Smoking in Places of Employment:  The places
subject to regulation pursuant to Subdivisions 1., 2., 3., 4., 8., and 9. of
Subsection B. shall not be deemed places of employment for purposes of this
subsection.  (Paragraph amended by Ord. No. 162,989, Eff. 1/7/88.)	The
following regulations apply to places of employment:	1.	Within one hundred
twenty (120) days of the effective date of this ordinance, each employer shall
adopt, implement and maintain a written smoking policy which shall contain at a
minimum, provisions related to the following:	a.	The prohibition of smoking in
cafeterias, restrooms, elevators and nurses aid stations or similar facilities
for the treatment of employees.  (Amended by Ord. No. 168,844, Eff.
8/2/93.)	b.	The provision and maintenance of a contiguous non-smoking area of
not less than two-thirds of the seating capacity and floor space in lunchrooms
and employee lounges.  (Amended by Ord. No. 168,844, Eff. 8/2/93.)	c.	A
statement providing that in any dispute arising between smokers and non-smokers,
efforts shall be made by the employer to accommodate the desires of both smokers
and non-smokers.	It shall be the responsibility of employers to provide
smoke-free work areas for non-smokers to the maximum extent possible but
employers are not required to incur any expense to make structural or other
physical modifications in providing these areas. An employer who makes
reasonable efforts to develop and promulgate a policy regarding smoking and
nonsmoking in the work place shall be deemed to be in compliance with this
paragraph, provided that a policy which designates an entire work place as a
smoking area shall not be deemed in compliance with this paragraph.	d.	An
employer shall post “No Smoking” signs in any area designated as a
non-smoking area.	2.	The smoking policy shall be communicated in writing to all
current employees within three weeks of the date of adoption, and to all future
employees at the time of their entry into employment.	3.	Notwithstanding the
above, every employer shall have the authority to designate any work area as a
non-smoking area.	4.	An employer who fails to adopt a smoking policy, or who
fails to post signs in any area designated as a non-smoking area as required by
Subdivision 1 shall be in violation of said subdivision. Such a violation shall
be punishable as a misdemeanor.	D.	Signs and Other Management
Responsibilities:  (Title and Section amended by Ord. No. 162,989, Eff.
1/7/88.)	1.	Signs.	a.	The person having the authority to manage and control any
area designated as a non-smoking area pursuant to Subdivisions 5. and 10. of
Subsection B. shall place or caused to be placed and prominently displayed, and
shall maintain “No Smoking” signs in conspicuous locations within said
areas. All such signs shall clearly and conspicuously recite the phrase “NO
SMOKING” and/or use the international no-smoking symbol and shall cite Section
41.50 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code. The signs shall be of sufficient number
and location to cause the message of the signs to be clearly visible, legible
and readable.	b.	The person having the authority to manage and control any area
designated as a non-smoking area pursuant to all other provisions of Subsections
B. or C., shall post or cause to be posted and prominently displayed, and shall
maintain “No Smoking” signs in conspicuous locations within said areas. All
such signs shall clearly and conspicuously recite the phrase “NO SMOKING”
and/or use the international no-smoking symbol and shall site Section 41.50 of
the Los Angeles Municipal Code. The signs shall be posted not less than 5 feet
nor more than 8 feet above floor level and shall be of sufficient number and
location to cause the message of at least one of the signs to be clearly
visible, legible and readable.	2.	The person having the authority to manage and
control those restaurants subject to Subdivision 10. of Subsection B. with both
smoking and non-smoking sections shall be responsible for ensuring that patrons
are asked their preference for seating in either the smoking or non-smoking
section.	3.	Violations.	a.	Violation of, or failure to comply with the
provisions of Subdivision 1. of this subsection shall be punishable as a
misdemeanor.	b.	Violation of, or failure to comply with the provisions of
Subdivision 2. of this subsection shall be punishable as an infraction.	E.	Other
Agency Cooperation:  Federal, State, County, public school and special district
officials are urged to enact and enforce provisions similar to the provisions
contained herein. (Amended by Ord. No. 162,989, Eff. 1/7/88.)	F.	EXCEPTIONS: 
The prohibition set forth in Subsection B. and C. shall not apply to private
enclosed offices occupied exclusively by smokers even though such an office may
be visited by non-smokers, or to those portions of bars open to the public. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 162,989, Eff. 1/7/88.)	G.	Implementation:  Employers shall
implement the provisions of this section in a manner consistent with all
applicable State or Federal statutes, rules or regulations, on employer-employee
relations.	H.	Penalties:	1.	It shall be unlawful to willfully mutilate or
destroy any signs required by this section.	2.	It shall be unlawful to smoke in
any area posted as a non-smoking area.	3.	It shall be unlawful for an employer
to discharge or in any manner discriminate against any employee who exercises
his or her rights under this section if the dominant intent of the employer is
retaliation against the employee for exercising those rights. Violation of this
provision shall be a misdemeanor.	4.	Except as otherwise expressly provided
herein, violation of any provision or failure to comply with any requirement of
this section is an infraction.
