                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

LOUD PARTY SECOND RESPONSE FEE. (§ 41.58)

  LOUD PARTY SECOND RESPONSE FEE.
	(Title and Section amended by Ord. No. 167,133, Eff.
9/1/91.)	(a)	Definitions.	Unless the context or subject matter otherwise
requires, terms defined herein shall have the following meaning when used in
this section:	1.	Board.  The Board of Police Commissioners.	2.	Office of
Finance.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,298, Eff. 6/30/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  The
Office of Finance of the City of Los Angeles.	3.	Department.  The Los Angeles
Police Department.	4.	First Response Notice.  A notice issued by a police
officer pursuant to this section advising a Responsible Person that a Loud Party
is taking place and that the disturbance must cease.	5.	Loud Party.  Any party,
gathering or event where a police officer at the scene determines that there is
a threat to the public peace, health, safety or general welfare.	6.	Responsible
Person.  The person or persons who own, lease, reside or is in charge of the
premises where the Loud Party, takes place; or the person or persons who
organized the Loud Party.  If the Responsible Person is a minor, then the
parents or guardians will also be considered a Responsible Party and be jointly
and severally liable for the Second Response Service Fee imposed by this
section.	7.	Second Response Notice.  A notice issued by a police officer
pursuant to this section assessing a Second Response Services Fee for a second,
or subsequent, response to a Loud Party.	8.	Second Response Service Fee.  A fee
imposed pursuant to this section to recover Special Security Costs.	9.	Special
Security Assignment.  The assignment of Department personnel and  equipment
during a second, or subsequent, response to a Loud Party after the issuing of a
First Response Notice.	10.	Special Security Costs.  Costs of services provided
by the Department associated with a Special Security Assignment which may
include personnel and equipment costs, damage to City property and injuries to
City personnel.	(b)	Authorization to Assess a Second Response Service
Fee.	Whenever a Loud Party occurs, a police officer may issue a First Response
Notice to a Responsible Person that the disturbance must cease.  A second, or
subsequent, response by a police officer, upon the issuing of a Second Response
Notice, may result in the imposition of a Second Response Service Fee to recover
Special Security Costs.	(c)	Duties of Board.	l.	The Board shall determine a
Second Response Service Fee schedule, subject to approval by the City Council by
order or resolution, which shall be based upon the existing Special Security
Costs incurred by the Department.	2.	The Board shall revise the Second Response
Service Fee, subject to approval by the City Council by order of resolution,
whenever Special Security Cost data developed by the Department requires
adjustment in the Second Response Service Fee.	3.	No fee imposed pursuant to
this section is authorized until the Board has approved the Department’s
implementation procedures, notices, and appeals procedures	(d)	Duties of the
Department.	l.	The Department shall develop written procedures to provide for
training and the uniform implementation of the Ordinance.	2.	The Department
shall develop a First Response Notice, a Second Response Notice, and any other
form or document necessary to carry out the purposes of this section.	3.	The
Department shall develop a post Second Response Notice administrative appeal
hearing procedure to determine whether the Second Response Service Fee was
assessed to the proper Responsible Person or was properly issued.  The hearing
shall be held in the Division where the Second Response Notice was
issued.	(e)	Duties of the Office of Finance.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,298,
Eff. 6/30/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)	1.	The Office of Finance shall bill the Second
Response Service Fee as reported by the Department.  The bill shall be due and
payable to the Office of Finance within fifteen days of the billing date.	2.	If
the Office of Finance determines for any billing that a discrepancy exists
between the service fee paid and the amount billed which results in an
underpayment or overpayment in an amount of three dollars or less, the Office of
Finance may accept and record the billing as paid in full without other
notification to the person billed.	3.	If the Office of Finance determines that
any amount of the service fee billed hereunder cannot be collected or that
efforts to collect would be disproportionately costly in relation to the
probable outcome of the collection efforts, the Office of Finance may prepare a
report setting forth the findings and reasons therefor and request that the
Board of Review authorize the removal of any unpaid amount from the active
accounts receivable of the Department pursuant to Section 11.04 of this Code. 
Upon unanimous approval of the Board of Review, the Office of Finance may remove
from the active accounts receivable any service fee owing.  If the Board of
Review does not unanimously approve the findings, the matter shall be returned
to the Office of Finance.  Any removal, however, shall not preclude the Office
of Finance from collecting or attempting to collect any such sum that later
proves to be collectible as provided by Section 11.04.	4.	At least monthly the
Office of Finance shall report to the Department the outstanding accounts
receivable, collections and service fee(s) written off.
