                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES AT SPORTING EVENTS, THEATRICALS AND EXHIBITIONS. (§ 41.56)

  UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES AT SPORTING EVENTS, THEATRICALS AND EXHIBITIONS.
	(Added by Ord. No. 134,080, Eff. 3/14/67.)	(a)	It shall be unlawful for any
person at any stadium, auditorium, sports arena, playing field, theater, race
track, skating rink, fair, or other place where sporting events, theatricals, or
exhibitions are held:	(1)	to leave the area or areas set aside for spectators
and enter upon the grounds, field, stage, floor, or any other area set apart for
the participants, performers, officials, attendants or service personnel, unless
authorized so to do by an usher or by an authorized representative of the
sponsor of the event or;	(2)	to commit any act which delays the event or
interferes with the participants, performers, officials, attendants, service
personnel or spectators at any such event or;	(3)	to intentionally throw,
discharge, launch or spill any solid or liquid substance or object, or otherwise
intentionally cause such substance or object to be thrown, discharged, launched,
spilled or to become airborne, unless such person is a duly authorized
participant, performer, official, attendant, service personnel or peace officer
acting within the course and scope of such person’s employment or duty. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 160,223, Eff. 8/2/85.)	(b)	No person shall enter any place
or area for which a ticket, pass or admission charge is required;	(1)	without
having in his possession a valid ticket or pass and presenting such ticket or
pass to an usher or authorized representative of the sponsor of the event when
requested so to do or;	(2)	without first having paid the price of admission,
unless otherwise duly authorized to enter such place or area or;	(3)	by
fraudulently evading or attempting to evade the payment of the price of
admission thereto.	(c)	No person entering any place or area described in
Subsection (b), other than the holder of a valid ticket or pass designating the
seat or space reserved or assigned, shall occupy any reserved or assigned seat
or space. No person shall refuse to vacate a seat or space not assigned or
reserved by the ticket or pass he holds when requested to do so by the holder of
the ticket or pass for said seat or space, by an usher, or by an authorized
representative of the sponsor of the event.
