                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PROHIBITION AGAINST CERTAIN FORMS OF AGGRESSIVE SOLICITATION. (§ 41.59)

  PROHIBITION AGAINST CERTAIN FORMS OF AGGRESSIVE SOLICITATION.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,705, Eff. 1/27/01)	(a)	Definitions.  For purposes of
this section:	(1)	“Solicit, ask or beg” shall include using the spoken,
written, or printed word, or bodily gestures, signs or other means with the
purpose of obtaining an immediate donation of money or other thing of value or
soliciting the sale of goods or services.	(2)	“Public place” shall mean a
place to which the public or a substantial group of persons has access, and
includes, but is not limited to, any street, highway, sidewalk, parking lot,
plaza, transportation facility, school, place of amusement, park, playground,
and any doorway, entrance,  hallway, lobby and other portion of any business
establishment, an apartment house or hotel not constituting a room or apartment
designed for actual residence.	(b)	Aggressive Solicitation prohibited.	(1)	No
person shall solicit, ask or beg in an aggressive manner in any public
place.	(2)	“Aggressive manner” shall mean any of the
following:	(A)	Approaching or speaking to a person, or following a person
before, during or after soliciting, asking or begging, if that conduct is
intended or is likely to cause a reasonable person to	(i)	fear bodily harm to
oneself or to another, damage to or loss of property, or	(ii)	otherwise be
intimidated into giving money or other thing of value;	(B)	Intentionally
touching or causing physical contact with another person or an occupied vehicle
without that person’s consent in the course of soliciting, asking or
begging;	(C)	Intentionally blocking or interfering with the safe or free passage
of a pedestrian or vehicle by any means, including unreasonably causing a
pedestrian or vehicle operator to take evasive action to avoid physical
contact;	(D)	Using violent or threatening gestures toward a person solicited
either before, during, or after soliciting, asking or begging;	(E)	Persisting in
closely following or approaching a person, after the person solicited has been
solicited and informed the solicitor by words or conduct that such person does
not want to be solicited or does not want to give money or any other thing of
value to the solicitor; or	(F)	Using profane, offensive or abusive language
which is inherently likely to provoke an immediate violent reaction, either
before, during, or after solicitation.	(c)	All solicitation prohibited at
specified locations.	(1)	Banks and ATMs.  No person shall solicit, ask or beg
within 15 feet of any entrance or exit of any bank, savings and loan
association, credit union, or check cashing business during its business hours
or within 15 feet of any automated teller machine during the time it is
available for customers’ use.  Provided, however, that when an automated
teller machine is located within an automated teller machine facility, such
distance shall be measured from the entrance or exit of the automated teller
machine facility.  Provided further that no person shall solicit, ask or beg
within an automated teller machine facility where a reasonable person would or
should know that he or she does not have the permission to do so from the owner
or other person lawfully in possession of such facility.  Nothing in this
paragraph shall be construed to prohibit the lawful vending of goods and
services within such areas.	(A)	Definitions.  For purposes of this
section:	(i)	“Bank” means any member bank of the Federal Reserve System, and
any bank, banking association, trust company, savings bank, or other banking
institution organized or operated under the laws of the United States, and any
bank the deposits of which are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation.	(ii)	“Savings and loan association” means any federal savings
and loan association and any “insured institution” as defined in Section 401
of the National Housing Act, as amended, and any federal credit union as defined
in Section 2 of the Federal Credit Union Act.	(iii)	“Credit union” means any
federal credit union and any state-chartered credit union the accounts of which
are insured by the Administrator of the National Credit Union
Administration.	(iv)	“Check cashing business” means any person duly licensed
as a check seller, bill payer, or prorater pursuant to Division 3 of the
California Financial Code, commencing with section 12000.	(v)	“Automated
teller machine” shall mean any electronic information processing device which
accepts or dispenses cash in connection with a credit, deposit, or convenience
account.	(vi)	“Automated teller machine facility” shall mean the area
comprised of one or more automated teller machines, and any adjacent space which
is made available to banking customers after regular banking
hours.	(B)	Exemptions.  The provisions of Subdivision (c)(1) shall not apply to
any unenclosed automated teller machine located within any building, structure
or space whose primary purpose or function is unrelated to banking activities,
including but not limited to supermarkets, airports and school buildings,
provided that such automated teller machine shall be available for use only
during the regular hours of operation of the building, structure or space in
which such machine is located.	(2)	Motor vehicles and parking lots.	(A)	Motor
vehicles.  No person shall approach an operator or occupant of a motor vehicle
for the purpose of soliciting, asking or begging while such vehicle is located
in any public place.	(B)	Parking lots.  No person shall solicit, ask or beg in
any public parking lot or structure any time after dark.  “After dark”
means any time from one-half hour after sunset to one-half hour before
sunrise.	(C)	Exemptions.  Subdivision (c)(2) shall not apply to any of the
following:	(i)	to solicitations related to business which is being conducted on
the subject premises by the owner or lawful tenants;	(ii)	to solicitations
related to the lawful towing of a vehicle; or	(iii)	to solicitations related to
emergency repairs requested by the operator or other occupant of a
vehicle.	(3)	Public transportation vehicles.	(A)	“Public transportation
vehicle” shall mean any vehicle, including a trailer bus, designed, used or
maintained for carrying 10 or more persons, including the driver; or a passenger
vehicle designed for carrying fewer than 10 persons, including the driver, and
used to carry passengers for hire.	(B)	Any person who solicits, asks or begs in
any public transportation vehicle is guilty of a violation of this
section.	(d)	Penalty.  A violation of this section is punishable as a
misdemeanor or infraction, chargeable at the City Attorney’s
discretion.	(e)	Severability.  The provisions of this ordinance are declared to
be separate and severable.  The invalidity of any clause, sentence, paragraph,
subdivision, section or portion of this ordinance, or the invalidity of the
application thereof to any person or circumstance shall not affect the validity
of the remainder of this ordinance, or the validity of its application to other
persons or circumstances.	(f)	Non-exclusivity.  Nothing in this chapter shall
limit or preclude the enforcement of other applicable laws.
