                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

GANG-RELATED NUISANCE VEHICLE FORFEITURE. (§ 41.71)

  GANG-RELATED NUISANCE VEHICLE FORFEITURE.
	(Added by Ord. No. 180,465, Eff. 2/8/09.)	(a)	Definitions.  As used in this
section:	(1)	“Gang Injunction” means a court order, in the form of a
preliminary or permanent injunction, issued against an identified criminal
street gang as an unincorporated association or organization, the provisions of
which seek to enjoin the gang’s nuisance activities in a delineated geographic
area known as the “Safety Zone”.	(2)	“Gang Member” means a member of a
“criminal street gang” as that term is defined in Penal Code section 186.22,
subdivision (t).	(3)	“Legal Owner” means the “legal owner” of a vehicle
as defined in Vehicle Code section 370.	(4)	“Registered Owner” means the
“registered owner” of a vehicle as defined in Vehicle Code section
505.	(5)	“Safety Zone” means a geographic area delineated in any gang
injunction within which a gang’s nuisance activities are to be
enjoined.	(6)	“Vehicle” means any transportation device that would require a
driver of the vehicle to have in his or her immediate possession a valid
driver’s license for the appropriate class of vehicle.	(b)	Circumstances in
Which Vehicle Becomes Nuisance Subject to Seizure and Forfeiture.  A vehicle
used in any of the following circumstances is a nuisance that shall be enjoined
and abated as provided in this section:	(1)	Any vehicle used within the City by
one or more gang members for the purpose of the commission of any of the
offenses listed in Penal Code section 186.22, subdivision (e), except for the
offenses listed in subdivision (e)(4) (relating to the sale, transportation and
manufacture of controlled substances).	(2)	Any vehicle used within a Safety Zone
in which a gang member who is subject to and has notice of the Gang Injunction
is:	(A)	Present with another known gang member in violation of the Gang
Injunction; or	(B)	Present and in actual or constructive possession of graffiti
tools in violation of the Gang Injunction; or	(C)	Present and transporting,
concealing, or storing a firearm or any ammunition, the possession of which
would be a violation of the Gang Injunction.	(c)	Title to Vest in the City. 
All right, title and interest in any vehicle used in any of the circumstances
described in subsection (b) shall vest in the City upon commission of the act
giving rise to the nuisance.	(d)	Seizure of Vehicle.	(1)	A peace officer may
seize a vehicle for forfeiture upon the issuance of an order by a court having
jurisdiction of the vehicle.	(2)	A peace officer may seize a vehicle for
forfeiture without a court order when:	(A)	The seizure is incident to an arrest
or a search conducted pursuant to a search warrant; or	(B)	There is probable
cause to believe that the vehicle is being used in any of the circumstances
described in subsection (b).	(3)	A peace officer seizing a vehicle under this
section shall complete a vehicle report and deliver it to the person from whose
possession the vehicle was seized.	(e)	Post-Seizure Investigation and Notice to
Registered and Legal Owners.	(1)	Upon seizure of a vehicle under this section,
the seizing agency shall immediately conduct an investigation as to any
registered owner and any legal owner of record with the Department of Motor
Vehicles of this or any other state or appropriate federal agency.	(2)	If the
agency finds that any person is the registered or legal owner, and that such
ownership or interest did not arise subsequent to the date and time of seizure
of the vehicle or notification of the forfeiture proceedings, the agency shall
send the following to each such person at his, her, or its address, as it
appears in the records of the Department of Motor Vehicles of this or any other
state or any appropriate federal agency, within three (3) business days of the
vehicle’s seizure:	(A)	A Notice of Seizure, which shall include the name,
address and telephone number of the agency providing the notice as well as the
authority and reason for the seizure; and	(B)	Information about the availability
of a post-seizure hearing, which shall include a statement that in order to
receive a post-seizure hearing, the owner, or his or her attorney or agent, must
request the hearing in person, or in writing, or by telephone within ten (10)
calendar days of the date of the Notice; and	(C)	Information about how to file a
claim, which shall include the time in which a claim of interest in the vehicle
seized or subject to forfeiture is required to be filed; and	(D)	A claim
form.	(f)	Post-Seizure Hearing.	(1)	When requested, the post-seizure hearing
shall be. conducted within three (3) business days of the seizing agency’s
receipt of the request for such a hearing.  The agency may authorize its own
officer or employee to conduct the hearing as long as the hearing officer is not
the same person who seized or directed the seizure of the vehicle.  The hearing
also may be conducted by a City Attorney hearing officer designated to conduct
such hearings.	(2)	The vehicle shall be retained upon a determination of
probable cause that the vehicle was used in one or more of the circumstances
described in subsection (b).	(3)	Failure of either the registered owner or legal
owner, or his or her attorney or agent, to request or attend a scheduled
post-seizure hearing within the appropriate time frame shall satisfy any
post-seizure hearing requirement.	(4)	Notwithstanding a determination of
probable cause, the hearing officer has the authority and discretion to direct
return of the vehicle to the registered owner pending further action under this
section, upon payment of towing, storage and release charges, if the hearing
officer is satisfied, considering all reliable and available information,
that:	(A)	The registered owner is not a gang member; and	(B)	The registered
owner was not operating or present in or around the vehicle at the time of the
violation resulting in its seizure; and	(C)	The registered owner did not
authorize or negligently permit the vehicle to be used in one or more of the
circumstances described in subsection (b); and	(D)	The vehicle was not
previously seized, impounded, or reportedly used in furtherance of any criminal
activity while in the possession or control of the registered owner; and	(E)	The
registered owner relies upon the vehicle for legitimate transportation
purposes.	(g)	Notice to Interested Persons of Intended Forfeiture of
Vehicle.	(1)	If the City Attorney determines that the factual circumstances
described in subsection (b) warrant forfeiture of the vehicle, the City Attorney
shall serve a Notice of Intended Forfeiture upon any person who has an interest
in the seized vehicle as determined pursuant to subsection (e). The Notice shall
be served as soon as practicable, but in any event within thirty (30) calendar
days of the seizure of the vehicle subject to forfeiture.	(2)	The Notice of
Intended Forfeiture shall be served by personal delivery, or by certified mail
return receipt requested, to the address on record with the Department of Motor
Vehicles, or any other address a person entitled to receive service under
subsection (e) designates in writing to the City Attorney.	(3)	In the event that
a person entitled to service under this section cannot be personally served, or
the certified return receipt is not received by the City Attorney within ten
(10) business days of mailing, substitute service may be accomplished by either
of the following methods:	(A)	By leaving a copy of the Notice at the address on
record with the Department of Motor Vehicles and any other address a person
entitled to receive service under subsection (e) designates in writing to the
City Attorney, and by mailing a copy to the recipient at the address where the
copy was left and any other address designated in writing to the City Attorney;
or	(B)	By first class mail, if the person entitled to service resides out of
state.	(4)	Service of the Notice of Intended Forfeiture shall be deemed complete
if the recipient acknowledges receipt of the Notice verbally or in writing, or
the certified return receipt is received by the City Attorney, or upon
completion of personal or substitute service.	(h)	Filing of Claims Opposing
Forfeiture and Court Proceedings Thereon.	(1)	A person claiming an interest in a
vehicle seized pursuant to subsection (d) must, within ten (10) calendar days
from the date of personal service or mailing of the Notice of the Intended
Forfeiture, file with the Superior Court of the County of Los Angeles a Claim
Opposing Forfeiture, verified in accordance with Code of Civil Procedure section
446.  The Claim shall describe the person’s interest in the vehicle.  A copy
of the Claim shall be served upon the City Attorney.	(2)	If a verified Claim is
filed in accordance with this section, the forfeiture proceeding shall be set
for hearing within thirty (30) calendar days from the date the Claim is filed
with the court.	(3)	The City Attorney shall file a Petition for Forfeiture
within ten (10) calendar days of being served with the Claim.  The Petition for
Forfeiture shall identify the vehicle to be forfeited, state the date and place
of the seizure, describe the factual and legal basis for the forfeiture, and
state the estimated value of the vehicle.	(4)	All discovery shall be completed
on or before the fifth calendar day before the hearing date, which date may be
extended in the court’s discretion.	(5)	The hearing shall be before the
Superior Court of the County of Los Angeles.  The provisions of the Code of
Civil Procedure shall apply to such proceedings unless otherwise inconsistent
with the provisions or, procedures set forth in this section.  A proceeding
under this subsection is a summary proceeding and there shall be no joinder of
actions, coordination of actions, or cross-complaints.  The issues to be
determined shall be limited strictly to those related to this section.  Trial
shall be by court or jury.	(i)	Contested Forfeiture of Vehicle.	(1)	Where
forfeiture pursuant to this section is contested, the City Attorney shall have
the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that the vehicle was
used in one or more of the circumstances described in subsection (b).	(2)	Upon
proof that the vehicle was used in any of the circumstances described in
subsection (b), the court shall:	(A)	Declare the vehicle a nuisance;
and	(B)	Order that the vehicle be forfeited and sold, and that the proceeds from
the sale be distributed in accordance with subsection (n); or	(C)	If the vehicle
was returned to the registered owner pursuant to subsection (f)(4), that it be
seized, forfeited and sold, and that the proceeds from the sale be distributed
in accordance with subsection (n).	(j)	Return to Innocent Owner. 
Notwithstanding that a vehicle seized under this section may have been used in
one or more of the circumstances described in subsection (b), the vehicle shall
not be subject to forfeiture and shall be returned to the registered owner, upon
payment of towing, storage and release charges, if the registered owner
establishes by a preponderance of the evidence that all of the following
circumstances exist:	(1)	The registered owner was not operating or present in or
around the vehicle at the time of the violation resulting in its seizure;
and	(2)	The registered owner did not know that the vehicle was to be used in one
or more of the circumstances described in subsection (b); and	(3)	The registered
owner was not negligent in allowing the vehicle to be used in one or more of the
circumstances described in subsection (b).	(k)	Detention In Lieu of
Forfeiture.	(1)	Notwithstanding that a vehicle seized under this section may
have been used in one or more of the circumstances described in subsection (b),
the court may, in lieu of forfeiture, order that the vehicle be detained for a
period of not less than thirty (30) days and not more than one-hundred-twenty
(120) days, if the court finds by a preponderance of the evidence that:	(A)	The
vehicle is the only vehicle available to members of the registered owner’s
household; and	(B)	Forfeiture of the vehicle would cause significant hardship to
a household member who relies upon the vehicle for transportation for legitimate
purposes; and	(C)	If released to the registered owner, the vehicle is unlikely
to be used in further violation of this section in the future.	(2)	If the court
orders the vehicle detained pursuant to this subsection, the registered owner
may reclaim the vehicle upon expiration of the detention period and payment of
tow, storage and release charges.	(l)	Stolen Vehicles.  A vehicle that has been
reported stolen prior to its seizure under this section shall not be subject to
forfeiture under this section, unless the identity of the registered owner
cannot be reasonably ascertained, or the registered owner fails to redeem the
vehicle within sixty (60) days of the seizure.  The registered owner of the
vehicle may claim the vehicle, upon payment of tow, storage and release charges,
provided the vehicle is not subject to any holds for traffic or parking
violations and the vehicle registration is current.	(m)	Uncontested Forfeiture
of Vehicle.	(1)	Where forfeiture pursuant to this section is not contested, the
City Attorney shall have the authority to declare the vehicle forfeited under
this section.	(2)	If no Claims are timely filed, the City Attorney shall prepare
a written Declaration of Forfeiture of the vehicle to the City.  A written
Declaration of Forfeiture signed by the City Attorney or his duly authorized
designee shall be deemed to vest good and sufficient title to the forfeited
vehicle in the City.  The proceeds from the disposal of the vehicle declared
forfeited by the City Attorney shall be distributed in accordance with
subsection (n)(1).  The City Attorney shall mail or otherwise provide a copy of
the Declaration of Forfeiture to any person who received notice of the
forfeiture proceedings pursuant to this section.	(n)	Disposal of Vehicle and
Distribution of Proceeds.	(1)	In any case in which a vehicle seized pursuant to
this section is forfeited to the City, the vehicle shall be sold, unless a
settlement is reached with the registered owner of the vehicle.  All proceeds
from the sale, or if cash is paid as settlement in lieu of forfeiture of the
vehicle, shall be distributed and appropriated in the order of priority listed
below:	(A)	To pay costs associated with the towing, storage and release of the
vehicle; and then	(B)	To pay costs associated with the sale of the vehicle; and
then	(C)	To the legal owner of the vehicle, if any, up to the amount of the
legal owner’s interest in the vehicle; and then	(D)	To the City’s general
fund.	(2)	In a contested forfeiture proceeding pursuant to subsection (i), the
court may make a different distribution of the proceeds in the interest of
justice, including a distribution to a person or entity other than a registered
or legal owner of the vehicle who can prove by clear and convincing evidence an
interest in the vehicle, up to the amount of that person’s provable interest,
but only if such person or entity has provided the court with proof of his, her,
or its claimed interest before the court makes a final disposition regarding the
vehicle.	(3)	For budgeting purposes, funds attributable to this ordinance shall
not be considered anticipated revenue to the general fund.	(o)	Recovery of
Monetary Loss.  Nothing in this section shall preclude a vehicle owner or
lienholder who suffers a monetary loss from the forfeiture of a vehicle under
this section from recovering the amount of the actual monetary loss from the
person or persons who committed the act giving rise to the forfeiture.
