                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

NUISANCE VEHICLES – PROSTITUTION. (§ 41.70)

  NUISANCE VEHICLES – PROSTITUTION.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 175,572, Eff. 11/24/03.)	A.	Definitions.	“Driver”
means any person who drives or is in physical control of a
vehicle.	“Prostitution” means engaging in lewd or sexual conduct for money
or other consideration.	“Vehicle” means any transportation device that
requires the driver to have in his or her immediate possession a valid
driver’s license for the appropriate class of vehicle being
driven.	B.	Abatement of Nuisance Vehicle by Seizure and Forfeiture.	1.	Any
vehicle used to solicit or to agree to engage in or to engage in an act of
prostitution is declared a nuisance and the vehicle shall be enjoined and abated
as provided in this section. 	2.	Any vehicle used to attempt to procure another
person for the purposes of prostitution or to procure another person for the
purposes of prostitution is declared a nuisance and the vehicle shall be
enjoined and abated as provided in this section.
	
	3.	Any vehicle used to cause, induce, persuade or encourage, by promises,
threats, violence, or by any device or scheme, another person to become a
prostitute is declared a nuisance and the vehicle shall be enjoined and abated
as provided in this section.	4.	Any person or his or her servant, agent, or
employee who owns, leases, conducts or maintains any vehicle used for any of the
purposes or acts set forth in this section is responsible for creating a public
nuisance.	C.	Title to Vest in the City.  All right, title and interest in any
vehicle described in Subsection B. shall vest in the City upon commission of the
act giving rise to the nuisance under this section.	D.	Seizure of Vehicle.
 	1.	A peace officer may seize a vehicle subject to forfeiture under this
section upon the issuance of an order by a court having jurisdiction of the
vehicle.  Seizure without court order may be made in any of the following
circumstances:	(a)	The seizure is incident to an arrest or search under a search
warrant;	(b)	There is probable cause to believe the vehicle was used in
violation of this section.	2.	A peace officer seizing a vehicle under this
section shall complete a receipt in accordance with Penal Code Section 1412 and
deliver it to the person from whose possession the vehicle was seized.	3.	An
immediate investigation shall be made by the public agency making the seizure as
to any potential claimant to a vehicle whose right, title, interest, or lien is
of record in the Department of Motor Vehicles of this or any other state or
appropriate federal agency.  If the public agency finds that any person, other
than the registered owner, is the legal owner, and the ownership did not arise
subsequent to the date and time of arrest or seizure of the vehicle or
notification of the forfeiture proceedings, it shall within two business days of
the vehicle’s seizure, send a notice of seizure to the legal owner at his or
her address appearing on the records of the Department of Motor Vehicles of this
or any other state or any appropriate federal agency.	4.	The public agency
seizing the vehicle shall provide any potential claimants discovered as a result
of the investigation set out in D.3. with the opportunity for a post-seizure
hearing to determine the validity of the seizure. The post-seizure hearing shall
be conducted within two business days of the request.  The public agency may
authorize its own officer or employee to conduct the hearing if the hearing
officer is not the same person who directed the seizure of the vehicle. 
Failure of either the registered or legal owner, or his or her agent, to request
or attend a scheduled hearing within the appropriate time frame shall satisfy
the post- seizure requirement.	(a)	The notice of seizure shall include the
following:	(i)	the name, address and telephone number of the agency providing
the notice;	(ii)	the authority and reason for the seizure;	(iii)	a statement
that in order to receive their post-seizure hearing, the owners, or their
agents, shall request the hearing in person, in writing, or by telephone within
ten calendar days of the date of the notice; and	(iv)	the time in which a claim
of interest in the vehicle seized or subject to forfeiture is required to be
filed.	5.	A vehicle seized pursuant to this section, where appropriate may be
held as evidence in any proceeding brought by the City Attorney or District
Attorney.	E.	Forfeiture and Notice of Intended Forfeiture of Vehicle.	1.	The
City Attorney may, pursuant to this section, order the forfeiture of vehicles
seized under this section.	2.	If the City Attorney determines that the factual
circumstances warrant  forfeiture of the vehicle described in Subsection B.,
the City Attorney shall serve a notice of intended forfeiture upon any person
who has an interest in the seized vehicle.  The notice shall be served as soon
as practicable, but in any event within 30 calendar days of the seizure of the
vehicle subject to forfeiture.	3.	The notice of intended forfeiture shall be
served as follows:	(a)	The notice of intended forfeiture shall be served by
personal delivery or certified mail, return receipt requested, upon any person
who has an interest in the seized vehicle as determined pursuant to Subsection
D.3.	(b)	In the event that the person entitled to service refuses to accept
certified return receipt mail or cannot be personally served, service may be
made by substituted service.  Substituted service may be accomplished by any
one of the following methods: 	(i)	By leaving a copy during usual business
hours at the recipient’s business with the person who is apparently in charge,
and by thereafter mailing by first class mail a copy to the recipient where the
copy was left; 	(ii)	By leaving a copy at the recipient’s dwelling or usual
place of abode, in the presence of a competent member of the household and
thereafter mailing by first class mail a copy to the recipient at the address
where the copy was left.	(c)	If the person entitled to service lives out of
state and will not accept certified return receipt mail, then service may be
made by first class mail.	(d)	If the person entitled to notice cannot be
located, or service cannot be effected as set forth in this subsection, service
may be made by publication in a Los Angeles newspaper of general circulation. 
Service shall be deemed sufficient when it is accomplished pursuant to
Government Code Section 6063.	F.	Claim Opposing Forfeiture and Court
Proceedings.	1.	A person claiming an interest in the vehicle seized pursuant to
Subsection B. must within ten calendar days from the date of the notice of
intended forfeiture or within 30 calendar days from the date of first
publication of the notice of intended forfeiture, file with the Superior Court
of the county in which the vehicle was seized, a Claim Opposing Forfeiture,
verified in accordance with Section 446 of the Code of Civil  Procedure,
stating his or her interest in the vehicle.  An endorsed copy of the claim
shall be served upon the City Attorney within ten calendar days of the filing of
the claim. 	2.	If a verified claim is filed in accordance with this section,
the forfeiture proceeding shall be set for hearing within 30 calendar days from
the date the claim is filed with the court. The City Attorney shall file a
petition for forfeiture within ten calendar days of service of the claim upon
the City Attorney.	3.	The hearing shall be before the Superior Court of Los
Angeles County.  The provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure shall apply to
proceedings under this section unless otherwise inconsistent with the provisions
or procedures set forth in this section.   However, in proceedings under this
section, there shall be no joinder of actions, coordination of actions, except
for forfeiture proceedings, or cross-complaints, and the issues shall be limited
strictly to the questions related to this section. Trial shall be by court or
jury.	4.	With respect to vehicles described in Subsection B. for which
forfeiture is sought and as to which forfeiture is contested, the City Attorney
shall have the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that the
vehicle was used as set forth in  Subsection B. 	5.	Upon proof that the
vehicle was used for any of the purposes set forth in Subsection B., the court
shall declare the vehicle a nuisance and order that the vehicle be forfeited,
sold, and the proceeds distributed as set forth in Subsection G.  The court may
make a different distribution of the proceeds, if the court finds that the
claimant did not know that the vehicle was used for a purpose that constitutes a
violation of this section	6.	If no claims are timely filed, the City Attorney
shall prepare a written declaration of forfeiture of the vehicle to the City. 
A written declaration of forfeiture signed by the City Attorney under this
section shall be deemed to provide good and sufficient title to the forfeited
vehicle.  The proceeds from the disposal of the vehicle declared forfeited by
the City Attorney shall be distributed in accordance with Subsection G.  The
City Attorney ordering forfeiture pursuant to this section shall provide a copy
of the declaration of forfeiture to any person who received notice of the
forfeiture proceedings.	G.	Disposal of Vehicle and Distribution of
Proceeds.	1.	In all cases where vehicles seized pursuant to this section are
forfeited to the City, the vehicles shall be sold, or if cash is paid as
settlement in lieu of forfeiture of the vehicle, the proceeds of sale or
settlement shall be distributed and appropriated as follows: 
 
	(a)	To pay costs associated with the towing, storage and release of any vehicle
seized under this section.	(b)	To pay costs associated with the sale of the
vehicle.	(c)	To the lien holder of the vehicle, if any, up to the amount of his,
her or its interest in the vehicle.	2.	The remaining funds shall be distributed
as follows:	(a)	To the City Attorney for all expenditures other than personnel
costs, made or incurred by the Office in connection with the enforcement of this
section, including but not limited to, costs for equipment, investigation,
supplies, litigation, insurance and liability resulting from enforcement of this
section and costs of publication of the notices set forth in Subsection
E.	(b)	To local law enforcement for all expenditures other than personnel costs,
made or incurred by the Department in connection with enforcement of this
section, including but not limited to, costs for equipment, investigation and
supplies related to enforcement of this section.	(c)	To the general fund.
	
	3.	For budgeting purposes, funds attributable to this ordinance shall not be
considered anticipated revenue into the general fund.	H.	Stolen Vehicles.  A
vehicle that has been reported stolen, prior to a seizure under this section
shall not be subject to forfeiture unless the identity of the registered owner
cannot be reasonably ascertained or the registered owner fails to redeem the
vehicle within 60 days of the seizure.  The registered owner of the vehicle may
claim the vehicle upon payment of tow, storage and release charges, provided the
vehicle is not subject to any holds for traffic or parking violations and the
vehicle registration is current. 	I. 	Recovery of Monetary Loss.  Nothing in
this section shall preclude an owner of a vehicle who suffers a monetary loss
from the forfeiture of a vehicle under this section from recovering the amount
of the actual monetary loss from the person who committed the act giving rise to
forfeiture under this section.
