                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

NUISANCE VEHICLES – ILLEGAL DUMPING. (§ 41.70.3)

  NUISANCE VEHICLES – ILLEGAL DUMPING.
	(Added by Ord. No. 175,575, Eff. 11/29/03.)	A.	Definitions.	“Authorized
public officer” means a public officer authorized under Los Angeles Municipal
Code Section 61.07(a).	“Bulky item” means any discarded furniture, home or
industrial appliance or abandoned vehicle or a part of an abandoned
vehicle.	“Driver” means any person who drives a motor vehicle.	“Hazardous
waste” means any waste as defined in California Health and Safety Code Section
25117.	“Illegal dumping” means the wilful throwing, dropping, placing or
depositing of a bulky item, hazardous waste or solid waste on public or private
property not designated for that dumping or disposal  purpose. “Illegal
dumping” does not include the discarding, dropping, or scattering of small
quantities of waste matter ordinarily carried on or about the person, including,
but not limited to, beverage containers and closures, packaging, wrappers,
wastepaper, newspapers, and magazines and including waste matter that  escapes
or is allowed to escape from a container, receptacle, or package. 	“Solid
waste” means all putrescible and non-putrescible solid, semisolid and liquid
wastes, including garbage, trash, refuse, paper, rubbish, ashes, industrial
wastes, demolition and construction wastes, dewatered, treated or chemically
fixed sewage sludge, which is not hazardous waste, manure, vegetable or animal
solid and semisolid wastes, and other discarded solid and semisolid wastes. 
Solid waste does not include hazardous waste. 	“Vehicle” means any
transportation device that requires the driver to have in his or her immediate
possession a valid driver’s license for the appropriate class of vehicle being
driven and which transportation device is equipped with a motor.	B.	Abatement of
Nuisance Vehicle by Seizure and Forfeiture.	1.	Any vehicle used for the purpose
of illegal dumping is a nuisance and the vehicle shall be enjoined and abated as
provided in this section.	2.	Any vehicle used to transport any bulky item, any
hazardous waste or solid  waste for the purpose of illegal dumping is a
nuisance and the vehicle shall be enjoined and abated as provided in this
section.	3.	Any person or his or her servant, agent, or employee who owns,
leases, conducts or maintains any vehicle used for any of the purposes or acts
set forth in this section is responsible for creating a public
nuisance.	C.	Title to Vest in the City.  All rights, title and interest in any
vehicle described in Subsection B. shall vest in the City upon commission of the
act giving rise to the nuisance under this section.	D.	Seizure of Vehicle.	1.	A
peace officer or authorized public officer may seize a vehicle subject to
forfeiture under this section upon the issuance of an order by a court having
jurisdiction of the vehicle.  Seizure without court order may be made in any of
the following circumstances:	(a)	The seizure is incident to an arrest or search
under a search warrant;	(b)	There is probable cause to believe the vehicle was
used in violation of this section.	2.	A peace officer or authorized public
officer seizing a vehicle under this section shall complete a receipt in
accordance with Penal Code Section 1412 and deliver it to the person from whose
possession the vehicle was seized.	3.	An immediate investigation shall be made
by the public agency making the seizure as to any potential claimant to a seized
vehicle whose right, title, interest, or lien is of record in the Department of
Motor Vehicles of this or any other state or appropriate federal agency. The
public agency shall send a notice of seizure within two business days of the
vehicle’s seizure, to all potential claimants whose right, title, interest or
lien did not arise subsequent to the date and time of seizure of the vehicle, if
that person or entity was not previously given a notice of seizure.	4.	The
public agency seizing the vehicle shall provide any potential claimants
discovered as a result of the investigation set out in D.3. with the opportunity
for a post-seizure hearing to determine the validity of the seizure. The
post-seizure hearing shall be conducted within two business days of the request
for the hearing.  The public agency may authorize its own officer or employee
to conduct the hearing if the hearing officer is not the same person who
directed the seizure of the vehicle. Failure of the potential claimant to
request or attend a scheduled hearing within the appropriate time frame shall
satisfy the post-seizure requirement.	(a)	The notice of seizure shall include
the following:	(i)	the name, address and telephone number of the agency
providing the notice;	(ii)	the authority and reason for the seizure;	(iii)	a
statement that in order to receive their post-seizure hearing, the potential
claimant shall request the hearing in person, in writing, or by telephone within
ten calendar days of the date of the notice; and	(iv)	the time in which a claim
of interest in the vehicle seized or subject to forfeiture is required to be
filed.	5.	A vehicle seized pursuant to this section, where appropriate may be
held as evidence in any proceeding brought by the City Attorney or District
Attorney.	E.	Forfeiture and Notice of Intended Forfeiture of Vehicle.	1.	The
City Attorney may, pursuant to this section, order the forfeiture of vehicles
seized under this section.	2.	If the City Attorney determines that the factual
circumstances warrant  forfeiture of the vehicle described in Subsection B.,
the City Attorney shall serve a notice of intended forfeiture upon any person
who has an interest in the seized vehicle.  The notice shall be served as soon
as practicable, but in any event within 30 calendar days of the seizure of the
vehicle subject to forfeiture.	3.	The notice of intended forfeiture shall be
served as follows:	(a)	By personal delivery or certified mail, return receipt
requested, upon any person who has an interest in the seized vehicle as
determined pursuant to Subsection D.3.	(b)	In the event that the person entitled
to service refuses to accept certified return receipt mail or cannot be
personally served, service may be made by substituted service.  Substituted
service may be accomplished by any one of the following methods: 	(i)	By
leaving a copy during usual business hours at the recipient’s business with
the person who is apparently in charge, and by thereafter mailing by first class
mail a copy to the recipient where the copy was left; 	(ii)	By leaving a copy
at the recipient’s dwelling or usual place of abode, in the presence of a
competent member of the household and thereafter mailing by first class mail a
copy to the recipient at the address where the copy was left.	(c)	If the person
entitled to service lives out of state and will not accept certified return
receipt mail, then service may be made by first class mail.	(d)	If the person
entitled to notice cannot be located, or service cannot be effected as set forth
in this subsection, service may be made by publication in a Los Angeles
newspaper of general circulation.  Service shall be deemed sufficient when it
is accomplished pursuant to Government Code Section 6063.	F.	Claim Opposing
Forfeiture and Court Proceedings.	1.	A person claiming an interest in the
vehicle seized pursuant to Subsection B. must within ten calendar days from the
date of the notice of intended forfeiture or within 30 calendar days from the
date of first publication of the notice of intended forfeiture, file with the
Superior Court of the county in which the vehicle was seized, a Claim Opposing
Forfeiture, verified in accordance with Section 446 of the Code of Civil 
Procedure, stating his, her or its interest in the vehicle.  An endorsed copy
of the claim shall be served upon the City Attorney within ten calendar days of
the filing of the claim. 	2.	If a verified claim is filed in accordance with
this section, the forfeiture proceeding shall be set for hearing within 30
calendar days from the date the claim is filed with the court. The City Attorney
shall file a petition for forfeiture with the court within ten calendar days of
service of the claim upon the City Attorney. A copy of the petition shall be
served upon the claimant.	3.	The hearing shall be before the Superior Court of
Los Angeles County.  The provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure shall apply
to proceedings under this section unless otherwise inconsistent with the
provisions or procedures set forth in this section.   However, in proceedings
under this section, there shall be no joinder of actions, coordination of
actions, except for forfeiture proceedings, or cross-complaints, and the issues
shall be limited strictly to the questions related to this section. Trial shall
be by court or jury.	4.	With respect to vehicles described in Subsection B. for
which forfeiture is sought and as to which forfeiture is contested, the City
Attorney shall have the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence
that the vehicle was used as set forth in  Subsection B. 	5.	Upon proof that
the vehicle was used for any of the purposes set forth in Subsection B., the
court shall declare the vehicle a nuisance and order that the vehicle be
forfeited, sold, and the proceeds distributed as set forth in Subsection G. 
The court may make a different distribution of the proceeds, if the court finds
that the claimant did not know that the vehicle was used for a purpose that
constitutes a violation of this section	6.	If no claims are timely filed, the
City Attorney shall prepare a written declaration of forfeiture of the vehicle
to the City.  A written declaration of forfeiture signed by the City Attorney
under this section shall be deemed to provide good and sufficient title to the
forfeited vehicle.  The proceeds from the disposal of the vehicle declared
forfeited by the City Attorney shall be distributed in accordance with
Subsection G.  The City Attorney ordering forfeiture pursuant to this section
shall provide a copy of the declaration of forfeiture to any person who received
notice of the forfeiture proceedings.	G.	Disposal of Vehicle and Distribution of
Proceeds.	1.	In all cases where vehicles seized pursuant to this section are
forfeited to the City, the vehicles shall be sold, or if cash is paid as
settlement in lieu of forfeiture of the vehicle, the proceeds of sale or
settlement shall be distributed and appropriated as follows: 
 
	(a)	To pay costs associated with the towing, storage and release of any vehicle
seized under this section.	(b)	To pay costs associated with the sale of the
vehicle.	(c)	To the lien holder of the vehicle, if any, up to the amount of his,
her or its interest in the vehicle.	2.	The remaining funds shall be distributed
as follows:	(a)	To the City Attorney for all expenditures other than personnel
costs, made or incurred by the Office in connection with the enforcement of this
section, including but not limited to, costs for equipment, investigation,
supplies, litigation, insurance and liability resulting from enforcement of this
section and costs of publication of the notices set forth in Subsection
E.	(b)	To local law enforcement for all expenditures other than personnel costs,
made or incurred by the Department in connection with enforcement of this
section, including but not limited to, costs for equipment, investigation and
supplies related to enforcement of this section.	(c)	To the general fund.
	
	3.	For budgeting purposes, funds attributable to this ordinance shall not be
considered anticipated revenue into the general fund.	H.	Stolen Vehicles.  A
vehicle that has been reported stolen, prior to a seizure under this section
shall not be subject to forfeiture unless the identity of the registered owner
cannot be reasonably ascertained or the registered owner fails to redeem the
vehicle within 60 days of the seizure.  The registered owner of the vehicle may
claim the vehicle upon payment of tow, storage and release charges, provided the
vehicle is not subject to any holds for traffic or parking violations and the
vehicle registration is current. 	I.	Recovery of Monetary Loss.  Nothing in
this section shall preclude an owner of a vehicle who suffers a monetary loss
from the forfeiture of a vehicle under this section from recovering the amount
of the actual monetary loss from the person who committed the act giving rise to
forfeiture under this section.
