                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

VENDING AND EXCESSIVE NOISE ON BEACHES PROHIBITED. (§ 42.15)

  VENDING AND EXCESSIVE NOISE ON BEACHES PROHIBITED.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 181,963, Eff. 1/20/12.)	A.	Definitions. For purposes of
this Section, the following words or phrases shall have the following
meanings:	1.	Board. The Board of Recreation and Park Commissioners of the City
of Los Angeles.	2.	Boardwalk. The Boardwalk is the manmade promenade that runs
parallel to the beach and is designated or referred to as “Ocean Front Walk”
or just the “Boardwalk”. The Boardwalk runs from the City of Santa Monica on
the north to the City of El Segundo on the south. A map depicting the Boardwalk
is available for inspection and copying at the Police Substation or at the
Recreation Office.	3.	City. The City of Los Angeles, a municipal
corporation.	4.	Designated Space or Designated Spaces. A Designated Space or
Designated Spaces are the 205 areas on the Boardwalk designated by the City and
located between Navy Street on the north and 17th Avenue on the south. A map
depicting the Designated Spaces is available for inspection and copying at the
Police Substation or at the Recreation Office.	5.	Department. The Department of
Recreation and Parks of the City of Los Angeles.	6.	Donation. A gift; a
voluntary act which is not required and does not require anything in
return.	7.	Food. Any type of edible substance or beverage.	8.	Goods or
Merchandise. Any items that are not food.	9.	Handcrafts. Objects made either by
hand or with the help of devices used to shape or produce the objects through
such methods as weaving, carving, stitching, sewing, lacing, and beading
including objects such as jewelry, pottery, silver work, leather goods, and
trinkets. Most Handcrafts have more than nominal utility apart from any
communicative value they possess. Most commonly, Handcrafts do not communicate a
message, idea, or concept to others, are often mass produced or produced with
limited variation. Handcrafts do not include visual arts.	10.	Pagodas. The shade
structures and seating, plus the area within a ten foot radius around each of
the shade structures and seating, located on the Boardwalk at Clubhouse Avenue,
Breeze Avenue, Park Avenue, Sunset Avenue and Dudley Avenue. A map depicting the
Pagodas is available for inspection and copying at the Police Substation or at
the Recreation Office.	11.	Perform, Performing, Performance or Performances. To
engage in any of the following activities on public property: playing musical
instruments, singing, dancing, acting, pantomiming, puppeteering, juggling,
reciting, engaging in magic, creating visual art in its entirety, presenting or
enacting a play, work of music, work of art, physical or mental feat, or other
constitutionally protected entertainment or form of expression. The terms
Perform, Performing, Performance or Performances shall not include:	(a)	The
application of substances to others’ skin, including but not limited to,
paints, dyes and inks;	(b)	The provision of personal services such as massage or
hair weaving, cutting or styling;	(c)	the completion or other partial creation
of visual art;	(d)	the creation of visual art which is mass produced or produced
with limited variation; or 	(e)	the creation of Handcrafts.	12.	Performer. A
Performer is a Person who Performs. Performer includes the employers, employees,
and agents of a Performer. Indicia of being a performer include, but are not
limited to, setting up performance equipment, staging or orienting the
performance towards the public, performing in the same location for an extended
period of time, performing in the public over multiple days, seeking voluntary
contributions through passing around a hat or leaving open an instrument case or
other receptacle, and soliciting donations after a performance.	13.	Person or
Persons. One or more natural persons, individuals, groups, businesses, business
trusts, companies, corporations, joint ventures, joint stock companies,
partnership, entities, associations, clubs or organizations composed of two or
more individuals (or the manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer or employee of
any of them), whether engaged in business, nonprofit or any other
activity.	14.	Police Substation. The Police Substation is the Los Angeles Police
Department office building located at 17th Avenue and Ocean Front
Walk.	15.	Program Rules. Rules adopted by the Board pursuant to its Charter
authority and made applicable to use of the public space on and adjacent to the
Boardwalk. The Program Rules will be adopted at a duly noticed public hearing at
which the public is provided an opportunity to comment, as required by the Ralph
M. Brown Act, at least ten (10) days prior to implementation. The Program Rules,
as may be amended from time-to-time by the Board, shall be available for
inspection and copying at the Police Substation or at the Recreation
Office.	16.	Pushcart. Any mobile device that holds Food or Goods or Merchandise,
as defined in this Subsection, and is used to vend.	17.	Recreation Area. The
area between Horizon and 20th Avenues that includes the Boardwalk, grassy areas,
the Police Substation, which is co-located with an office of the City’s
Department of Recreation and Parks, Muscle Beach, paddle tennis courts, skate
park, skate plaza and other recreational facilities. This does not include the
area west of the Boardwalk immediately adjacent to this area. A map of the
Recreation Area is available for inspection and copying at the Police Substation
or at the Recreation Office.	18.	Recreation Office. The Recreation Office is an
office of the City’s Department of Recreation and Parks that is physically
co-located with the Police Substation at 17th Avenue and Ocean Front
Walk.	19.	Sunset. Sunset is the time at which the sun’s disk descends below
the western horizon. The precise moment of Sunset can be determined by reference
to various, publicly available almanacs and newspapers of general circulation in
Los Angeles.	20.	Vend or Vending. To sell, offer for sale, expose or display for
sale, solicit offers to purchase, or to barter Food, Goods or Merchandise, or
services in any area from a stand, table, Pushcart, motor vehicle, bicycle, or
by a Person with or without the use of any other device or other method of
transportation, or to require someone to pay a fee or to set, negotiate, or
establish a fee before providing Food, Goods or Merchandise, or services, even
if characterized by the Vendor as a Donation.	21.	Vendor. A Vendor is a Person
who Vends. Vendor includes the employers, employees, and agents of a
Vendor.	22.	Westside of the Boardwalk. The area on the ocean-side of the
Boardwalk. A map depicting the Westside of the Boardwalk is available for
inspection and copying at the Police Substation or at the Recreation
Office.	B.	Findings and Purposes. The City Council of the City of Los Angeles
finds and declares as follows:	1.	The Boardwalk and Recreation Area constitute a
major tourist attraction in the City, hosting approximately 16 million visitors
annually. The Boardwalk and Recreation Area are limited spaces geographically,
located in a narrow, linear City park that is bounded by the beach to the West
and private property to the East. The total width of the Boardwalk is only ten
feet in certain sections and only as wide as 50 feet in other limited areas. The
space is further constrained by the fact the Boardwalk and Recreation Area serve
as emergency ingress and egress routes.	2.	Historically, visitors, including
tourists, have been drawn to Venice beach because, the Boardwalk and Recreation
Area served as a traditional public forum for performance and visual artists, as
well as other free speech activity. Vendors of Food, Goods and Merchandise
viewed the large crowds of visitors to the Boardwalk and Recreation Area as a
pool of potential customers and Vending proliferated. As the numbers of
commercial Vendors increased, the number of Performers and persons engaging in
free speech activities decreased both because of the limited amount of space and
because of the change in atmosphere from a vibrant center of art and expression
to a commercial “flea market” atmosphere. Competing interests for space on
the Boardwalk and Recreation Area intensified and physical altercations for
space and disturbances of the peace resulted in law enforcement responses and
arrests.	3.	Unregulated Vending and Performances adversely affect the historic
character of the Boardwalk, hamper rather than encourage a wide variety of
performances, visual artists and other free speech activity, as well as
jeopardize the public safety of visitors to the Boardwalk, resulting in an
economic and cultural loss to the City. Therefore, the Boardwalk requires
reasonable time, place, and manner restrictions to retain its unique historic
character as a center of performance, art, and other free speech activity,
preserve its status as a tourist attraction, protect the commercial life of the
Boardwalk, and ensure the safety and enjoyment of residents, visitors,
advocates, artists, performers, and Vendors alike. Due to its unique historical,
geographical, and physical characteristics, the Boardwalk requires its own set
of rules and regulations different from other public parks in the
City.	4.	Unregulated Vending and Performing harms the Boardwalk, and therefore
must be regulated because:	(a)	Tourists are deterred from visiting or shopping
at the Boardwalk as they are constantly approached, solicited, and sometimes
harassed by unregulated Vendors and Performers. Regulation is therefore
necessary to manage the time, place, and manner of Vending on the Boardwalk, in
order to ensure that tourists are not deterred from visiting or shopping at the
Boardwalk;	(b)	The amount of space on the Boardwalk that is available for
performing and visual artists and for political advocacy is limited due to the
size of the Boardwalk and the large crowds of visitors that the Boardwalk
attracts. Due to the limited amount of space, unregulated Vending along the
Boardwalk prevents many Persons from engaging in performance, art, advocacy or
other expressive activities. The lack of regulations for Vending, Performing and
noise has resulted in conflicting claims for the available spaces. Numerous
altercations occurred, in competition for locations and amounts of space, during
time periods in which the City lacked regulations for noise and a system for
allocating available space for Vending and Performing. Frequently, the
altercations became violent requiring law enforcement response to preserve the
public peace. Persons wishing to secure spaces often arrive prior to dawn and
create loud noise in setting up their displays, thereby disturbing the public
peace, including the peace of the residents on and near the Boardwalk, and
requiring a law enforcement response. Unregulated, the Boardwalk became a place
where only the strongest and earliest arrivals could secure space to exercise
their rights of free expression without threat of intimidation. Regulation is
necessary, therefore, to manage the use of the limited space on the Boardwalk to
prevent conflicting claims for the space and to allocate the limited space
available fairly to all who desire to use it for lawful purposes;	(c)	Tables,
Pushcarts, stands, and certain equipment of Vendors and Performers impede the
orderly movement of pedestrian traffic along the narrow Boardwalk and may make
the Boardwalk unsafe for pedestrians by limiting the City’s ability to effect
crowd management and control. Certain equipment of Vendors and Performers
contributes to visual clutter and blight, especially when it impacts the ability
of Boardwalk visitors to see the Pacific Ocean. Regulating the use of equipment
by Vendors and Performers therefore is necessary to manage the orderly movement
of pedestrian traffic. Regulation also is necessary to avoid injuries to
pedestrians as well as ensure the existence of emergency and non-emergency
ingress and egress between the beach and the Boardwalk;	(d)	The Vendors,
Performers and their equipment impede the ingress and egress of emergency and
public safety vehicles by creating physical obstacles to emergency response and
administration of aid to those in need of immediate medical attention and to
victims of criminal activity. Regulation is therefore necessary to ensure that
Vendors, Performers and their equipment do not interfere with emergency response
vehicles that provide assistance to individuals with medical needs and victims
of criminal activity;	(e)	Unregulated Vending has resulted in the sale of
stolen, defective or counterfeit merchandise. Regulation therefore is necessary
to protect the public and the Boardwalk commercial life;	(f)	Unregulated Vending
of personal services has resulted in activities that are illegal and harmful to
human health, including the offering of services by unlicensed Vendors of
services for which a license is required by the State of California, physical
assaults and the application of toxic chemicals to Persons;	(g)	Unregulated
Vending causes visual clutter/blight along the Boardwalk, impedes views of the
beach and the Pacific Ocean, and threatens the City’s ability to attract
tourists and preserve businesses along the Boardwalk. Regulation therefore is
necessary to manage the number of Vendors, the size of their equipment and
displays, and the location of Vending activity;	(h)	Unregulated Vending creates
unnecessary, excessive and annoying noise on the Boardwalk, is detrimental to
the public health, welfare and safety and contrary to the public interest, harms
residents, the commercial life of the Boardwalk and the historic character of
the Boardwalk, and diminishes the quality of life for those who visit, live or
work on or near the Boardwalk. Regulation therefore is necessary to establish
restrictions on noise at the Boardwalk; and	(i)	The Recreation Area is a site
that is uniquely suitable to and frequently used for events that require
pre-planning and advanced notice. The Recreation Area is the location of the
Police Substation where vehicles require the ability for unobstructed ingress
and egress. Due to the size, shape, and physical attributes of the Recreation
Area (including a skate park and plaza, paddle tennis courts and exercise
equipment), it is also a site uniquely suitable to and used by many Persons for
skateboarding, paddle tennis, and other sports and exercise. The Recreation Area
is the home of historic “Muscle Beach”, a popular tourist attraction. Muscle
Beach is world renowned as home of physical fitness advocates and body builders,
including Jack La Lanne (considered to be the father of the modern fitness
movement), Arnold Schwarzenegger, Franco Columbo and Dave Draper.	C.	Beach
Vending Prohibition. Except as specifically allowed in this Section, no Person
shall engage in Vending upon any public beach lands or properties adjoining the
waterfront of the Pacific Ocean, or upon any immediately adjacent Boardwalk,
sidewalk or public way between the southerly boundary of the City of Santa
Monica and the northerly boundary of the City of El Segundo and between the
northwesterly boundary of the City of Santa Monica and the northwesterly
boundary of the City of Los Angeles.	D.	Vending and Performing on Designated
Spaces. To address the findings and purposes set forth in this Section, the City
has created reasonable time, place, and manner restrictions on Vending and
noise, as well as to facilitate Performing. To preserve the Boardwalk’s rich
history of fostering new artists, performance, and other free speech activity,
the City has divided the available space on the Boardwalk into 205 areas, known
as Designated Spaces, where:	1.	Persons can engage in traditional expressive
speech and petitioning activities, and can Vend the following expressive items:
newspapers, leaflets, pamphlets, bumper stickers, patches and/or
buttons.	2.	Persons can Vend the following items, which have been created,
written or composed by the Vendor or Performer: books, audio, video, or other
recordings of their performances, paintings, photographs, prints, sculptures or
any other item that is inherently communicative and is of nominal value or
utility apart from its communication.	3.	Although an item may have some
expressive purpose, it will be deemed to have more than nominal utility apart
from its communication if it has a common and dominant non-expressive purpose.
Examples of items that have more than nominal utility apart from their
communication and thus are subject to the Vending ban under the provisions of
this Section, include but are not limited to, the following: housewares,
appliances, articles of clothing, sunglasses, auto parts, oils, incense,
perfume, crystals, lotions, candles, jewelry, toys and stuffed
animals.	4.	Performers can Perform.	5.	Any Vendor conducting lawful Vending
under Subsections D.1. and D.2., above, must comply with applicable tax and
licensing requirements.	E.	Allocation and Use of Designated Spaces. The City’s
Board of Recreation and Parks Commissioners shall designate a total of 205
spaces on the Boardwalk, referred to as the “Designated Spaces”. The
Designated Spaces will be available for use in accordance with a first-come,
first-served system or any other legally permissible allocation system adopted
by the Board at a duly noticed public hearing at which the public is provided an
opportunity to comment, as required by the Ralph M. Brown Act, posted at the
Recreation Office for at least ten (10) days prior to implementation.	The 205
Designated Spaces shall be made available for the activities described in
Subsection D. above. Five of the Designated Spaces shall be double-sized, large
act spaces for Performers whose number of Performers plus audience can be
anticipated to exceed 25 Persons. Two of the regular-sized Designated Spaces
shall be made available for Persons engaging in any activity that is described
in Subsection D. and who are predominantly giving away Food. The remainder of
the regular-sized, Designated Spaces shall be made available for Persons
engaging in any exempt activity described in Subsection D.	Persons using the 205
Designated Spaces are subject to, and shall comply with, the following
restrictions and the Program Rules adopted by the Board:	1.	The five
double-sized, large act Performer spaces historically have been used by
Performers (such as acrobats) whose performances require more space than is
available in a single-sized, Designated Space, and have been used by Performers
who attract large crowds due to the nature of their performances. The five,
double-sized, large act Performer spaces are the only spaces able to safely
accommodate large scale performances or a large audience and, therefore, in
order to facilitate a variety of Performances in these double-sized spaces, the
Performer spaces are subject to a rotation requirement, whereby each Performer
using one of the five Performer spaces shall relinquish the space on the hour,
every hour, whenever another Performer is waiting to use the Performer space in
which the Performer is Performing.	2.	No Person shall Vend any item in a
Designated Space, except as expressly authorized by Subsection D.	3.	No Person
shall place or allow anything in any Designated Space to extend beyond the
boundaries of the Designated Space nor place anything adjacent to the Designated
Space nor obstruct or impede the access areas between the Designated
Spaces.	4.	No Person shall Vend in, Perform in, or place or allow any item to
extend into a designated emergency ingress and egress area. A map depicting the
emergency ingress and egress areas is available for inspection and copying at
the Police Substation or at the Recreation Office.	5.	The City desires to
balance the goal of avoiding visual clutter and blight against the need of
Performers and Vendors exempt pursuant to Subsection D., above, to have shade
from the sun. Additionally, the City desires to balance the goal of avoiding
visual clutter and blight against the desire of Performers and Vendors exempt
pursuant to Subsection D., above to use equipment common to exempted Performing
and Vending activities. Accordingly, the following rules relating to shade,
Performing and Vending equipment: are adopted as follows: No Person shall place
or allow any item (except an umbrella, sun shade, easel, display board or
microphone stand) exceeding four feet above ground in any Designated Space, nor
shall any Person cause or allow a Designated Space to be enclosed. An umbrella
or sun shade shall not exceed 8 feet above ground and shall be open on all
sides. An easel, display board or microphone stand shall not exceed 6 feet in
height. Persons shall not hang objects of any nature on or from any umbrella,
sun shade, easel or display board.	6.	No Person occupying a Designated Space
shall leave that Designated Space for a period longer than 45 consecutive
minutes without first removing all items from the Designated Space.	7.	No Person
shall occupy more than one single regular-sized or double-sized Designated Space
at any given time, nor shall any Person solicit another Person to obtain or
occupy a Designated Space on his or her behalf.	8.	No Person shall purchase,
sell, barter or exchange any Designated Space with any other Person.	9.	No
Person shall set up or set down items in, take down items from or block, or
attempt to reserve a Designated Space between Sunset and 9:00 a.m.	10.	Any
umbrella used in connection with the activities authorized in the Designated
Spaces must be adequately secured in an upright position with a diameter no
greater than 8 feet.	11.	Designated Spaces must be kept clean and free of litter
and debris. No permanent markings shall be made in any Designated Space. Any
temporary marking made in any Designated Space must be removed from the
Designated Space when the Person using the Designated Space vacates the
Designated Space or by Sunset, whichever is earlier.	12.	No open flames
combustible fuel or gasoline-fueled generators are allowed in any Designated
Space. Electric cords may not be connected outside the assigned space or to any
City or private power source.	F.	Special Rules for Other Areas of the
Boardwalk.	1.	Areas Outside of the Designated Spaces, Pagodas, and Recreation
Area.	(a)	Areas where use of equipment is prohibited. The activities described
in Subsection D. may occur in all areas covered by this Section outside the
Designated Spaces, Pagodas, and Recreation Area, provided that no Person may set
up a display table, easel, stand, equipment or other furniture, use a Pushcart
or other vehicle or place any item on the property defined in Subsection C.
except as provided in Paragraph (b) of this Subdivision.	(b)	Areas where limited
use of equipment is permitted. The activities described in Subsection D., but
not including Vending, may occur on the Westside of the Boardwalk outside the
Designated Spaces, Pagodas, Recreation Area and other areas designed as access
points for or constitute routes for emergency ingress and egress. In connection
with permissible activities in the area on the Westside of the Boardwalk,
outside the Designated Spaces, Pagodas, Recreation Area and other areas
designated for emergency ingress and egress, a Person may set up a display
table, easel, stand, equipment or other furniture, a Pushcart or other vehicle,
or place an item on the ground in the areas where limited use of equipment is
permitted, subject to reasonable size and height restrictions set forth in
paragraph E.5., herein, provided the equipment or the activity associated with
the equipment does not materially impede or obstruct pedestrian or vehicular
traffic or areas designed for emergency ingress and egress. Nothing in this
paragraph shall be construed to allow a person to use or set up equipment in
connection with Vending.	(c)	The areas in which use of equipment is prohibited
and areas in which limited use of equipment is permitted is available for
inspection and copying at Police Substation or Recreation Office.	2.	The
Recreation Area.	(a)	The Recreation Area is a limited space containing a
confluence of public safety ingress and egress routes, and at which pre-planned
events, recreation activities and tourism occur. The City’s Board of
Recreation and Parks Commissioners may allocate use of the Recreation Area
through the adoption of Program Rules detailing an advance reservation system or
any other legally permissible allocation system, and the advance reservation
system or other legally permissible allocation system contained in the Program
Rules will be adopted by the Board at a duly noticed public hearing at which the
public is provided an opportunity to comment, as required by the Ralph M. Brown
Act, and made effective after reasonable public notice by posting at the
Recreation Office for at least ten (10) days prior to implementation. A copy of
the Program Rules shall be available for inspection and copying at the Police
Substation or the Recreation Office.	(b)	No Vending, and no display tables,
easels, stands, equipment, Pushcarts or other vehicles, or structures shall be
allowed in the Recreation Area except as may be expressly authorized by the
Board in connection with the Board’s pre-approval of the use of the Recreation
Area.	(c)	No Person shall use the Recreation Area or any part of the Recreation
Area while the Recreation Area or that part of the Recreation Area has been
reserved, set aside, is being used, set up, maintained or designed for a
specific recreational purpose, park purpose or event authorized by the City
through the Department or Board. When the City, through the Department or Board,
has reserved, intends to use, set up, maintain or designate the Recreation Area
or any part of the Recreation Area for a specific recreational purpose, park
purpose or event, the Department will make available for inspection and copying
at the Police Substation or Recreation Office information describing the nature
of the authorized park purpose or event, the location of the park purpose or
event and the times during which the park purpose or event will take
place.	G.	Use of City Property for Vending, Performing, or Display Prohibited.
No Person shall use or obstruct access to any City-owned or maintained property
or equipment, including, but not limited to, street furniture, benches,
planters, trash receptacles, Pagodas or other structures or equipment installed
on public property, for Vending, Performing, or display of anything
whatsoever.	H.	Noise Regulation for all Property on or Abutting the
Boardwalk.	1.	No Person whether on the Boardwalk or on private or public
property abutting the Boardwalk shall create any noise, or allow the creation of
any noise, which causes the noise level to exceed the following Lmax levels
between 9:00 a.m. and Sunset:	(a)	75 dBA, when measured at a minimum distance of
25 feet from the source of the noise; or,	(b)	96 dBA, when measured at a minimum
distance of one foot from the source of the noise.	When Lmax levels are measured
for noise emanating from a building located on private property adjacent to the
Boardwalk, the measurement shall be taken from the property line dividing the
private property and the Boardwalk.	2.	Nothing in this Section shall be
construed as prohibiting the City from enforcing other provisions of this Code
regulating noise and sound levels. At all times, the noise and sound provisions
of Chapter 11 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code, Articles 1 through 5,
inclusive, and Los Angeles Municipal Code Sections 63.44 B.6., 41.42, 41.57,
53.63 shall apply. 	3.	No Person shall interfere with or resist the taking of
any noise measurement authorized by this Section.	I.	Violations. Any Person
violating a provision of this Section shall be subject to the following
penalties:	1.	First violation. A first violation of this Section shall be an
infraction punishable by a fine in the amount of $100.	2.	Second and subsequent
violations. A second violation and all subsequent violations shall be subject to
the provisions of Section 11.00 of the L.A.M.C, including prosecution as an
infraction punishable by a fine in the amount of $250, or prosecution as a
misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000 or by imprisonment in
the County Jail for a period of not more than six months, or by both a fine and
imprisonment.	3.	Nothing in this Section shall be construed as prohibiting the
City from enforcing any and all other provisions of this Code or other
applicable laws. At all times, Los Angeles Municipal Code Section 63.44, which
regulates the use of park and recreational facilities, shall apply.	J.	Other
Applicable Opening and Closing Hours. Nothing in this Section amends or extends
the opening or closing hours otherwise established by law for any area subject
to this Section. 	K.	Posted Notice. The City shall post signs providing notice
of the existence of rules for the allocation and use of the Designated Spaces,
Recreation Area and Boardwalk areas near the entrances to the Designated Spaces
and the Recreation Area. A complete copy of this Section shall be available for
inspection and copying at the Police Substation or at the Recreation
Office.	L.	Severability. If any portion, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase
of this Section is for any reason held by a court of competent jurisdiction to
be invalid, such a decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions of this Ordinance. The City Council hereby declares that it would have
passed this Section and each portion or subsection, sentence, clause and phrase
herein, irrespective of the fact that any one or more portions, subsections,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared invalid.
