                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

GAMBLING – DICE SHAKING. (§ 43.01)

  GAMBLING – DICE SHAKING.	The following initiative ordinance is Ordinance
No. 36674, approved June 5, 1917, by more than a majority of qualified electors
of this City. The placing of this ordinance in this Code shall not be construed
as altering, amending or repealing said ordinance. Any violation of the
provisions of Ordinance No. 36674 shall not be deemed to be a violation of any
of the provisions of this Code, but shall be deemed to be a violation of said
Ordinance and punishable as therein provided.“ORDINANCE NO. 36,674 (New
Series)	An Ordinance prohibiting the shaking of dice for money or merchandise
and prohibiting the keeping or permitting to be kept places for playing certain
games in the City of Los Angeles not prohibited by Section 330 or 330a of the
Penal Code, and prohibiting the playing or betting at such games.	The People of
the City of Los Angeles do ordain as follows:	Section 1. It shall be unlawful
for any person, either as principal, agent, employee or otherwise, to keep,
conduct or maintain within the City of Los Angeles, any house, room, apartment
or place used in whole or in part as a place where any game not mentioned in
Section 330 or 330a of the Penal Code of the State of California is played,
conducted, dealt or carried on, with cards, dice, billiard balls, pool balls,
cues or other device, for money, checks, chips, credit or any other
representative of value or for any merchandise or any other thing of
value.	Section 2. It shall be unlawful for any person, either as principal,
agent, employee or otherwise, knowingly to permit any house, room, apartment or
place owned by him or under his charge or control, in said City of Los Angeles,
to be used in whole or in part for playing, conducting, dealing or carrying on
therein any game not mentioned in Section 330 or 330a of the Penal Code of the
State of California, with cards, dice, billiard balls, pool balls, cues or other
device, for money, checks, chips, credit or any other representative of value or
for any merchandise or any other thing of value.	Section 3. It shall be unlawful
for any person to play or bet at or against any game not mentioned in Section
330 or 330a of the Penal Code of the State of California, which is played,
conducted, dealt or carried on with cards, dice, billiard balls, pool balls,
cues, or other device, for money, checks, chips, credit or any other
representative of value or for any merchandise or any other thing of
value.	Section 4. That any person, firm or corporation violating any of the
provisions of this Ordinance shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and on
conviction thereof shall be punishable by a fine of not less than ten ($10.00)
dollars or more than One Thousand ($1,000.00) dollars, or by imprisonment in the
County Jail for a period of not more than six (6) months, or by both such fine
and imprisonment. (Amended by Ord. No. 160,063, Eff 7/28/85.)	Section 5. That
Ordinance No. 18,984 (New Series), entitled “An Ordinance prohibiting the
keeping of places for playing certain games and prohibiting the playing or
betting of such games,” approved October 15th 1909, be and the same is hereby
repealed; provided, however, that such repeal shall not affect any prosecution
for violation of any provision of said Ordinance No. 18,984 (New Series)
committed prior to the repeal thereof. That all other ordinances or parts of
ordinances in conflict with this ordinance be and the same are hereby
repealed.	I hereby certify that the foregoing ordinance was submitted for
approval to a vote of the qualified electors of the City of Los Angeles,
pursuant to the provisions of the Charter of said City, at the General Municipal
Election held in said City on Tuesday, June 5, 1917, and that said ordinance was
approved by more than a majority of the qualified electors of said City voting
thereon at said election.	CHAS L. WILDE
	City Clerk of the City of Los Angeles”
