                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

COIN GAMES AND SIMILAR CONTRIVANCES – POSSESSION PROHIBITED. (§ 43.05.1)

  COIN GAMES AND SIMILAR CONTRIVANCES – POSSESSION
PROHIBITED.	A.	Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
terms are defined as hereinafter set forth:	1.	“Pin Game”: Any table,
cabinet, or mechanism equipped for the playing of any game whereby any marble,
ball, pellet or other moving object is propelled, released, rolled or shot
along, over or above a surface set with pins, pegs or other obstructions or
irregularities which deflect or impede the course of the moving object or which
may divert or direct it beyond the control of the player.	2.	“Marble Game”:
Any table, cabinet or stand equipped for the playing of a game whereby marbles
or balls are, with the aid of a mechanical plunger or other affixed device,
propelled, released, shot or rolled so as to drop or come to rest in holes,
slots, cups or traps, resulting in a score or tally being electrically or
otherwise registered or shown which score or tally depends upon the course
followed or point reached by the marble or ball or upon the contact points
touched by it along its course, or upon any combination of such factors.	3.	The
phrase “Any game similar to a marble game” shall mean: “Balley-Alley”
and any other miniature mechanical bowling game device, by whatever name called;
any table, cabinet or mechanical device equipped for the playing of any game
whereby any marble, ball, pellet or any moving object is propelled, rolled, shot
or released toward a goal, pin, set of pins, or other objective by means of any
plunger, ejector, mechanical bat, mechanical hand or by means of any other
striking or releasing mechanism which is affixed or attached to the table or
cabinet, or which is an integral part of the mechanical device or which is
mechanically manipulated, controlled or guided, and which game is so contrived
that, at the conclusion of the operation or play thereof the score or result of
play thereof is visible or otherwise discernible so as to permit or make
practicable the playing off or the awarding of a prize or reward upon the
operation or play of the game.	4.	“Claw, Hook, or Grab Machine”: Any
amusement machine or device so designed that articles placed or heaped therein
for the purpose of the game may be grabbed, hooked, or otherwise displaced,
recovered or removed by the operation of any contrivance simulating in miniature
a power shovel, clam shell, dragline or similar excavating tool or
machine.	5.	“Horse Racing Machine”: Any mechanically operated amusement
machine or device contrived to simulate in miniature the running of a horse race
or any other race run by beasts, humans or machines, or which is contrived to
put in motion any number of objects or symbols which then do, or appear to, run
or move against each other in the manner of a miniature race, or which is
designed to represent, by symbols, the running of any race and the order of the
finish thereof.	B.	It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, maintain or
possess in any place of business or in any place of public resort:	1.	Any pin
game, any marble game or any game similar to a marble game, any claw, hook or
grab machine or any horse race machine, the operation of which game or machine
is controlled, permitted or made available by placing therein a coin, plug,
disc, key or token, or which is let for use, operation or play upon the payment
or delivery of anything of value therefor, or upon the making of any
purchase.	2.	Any mechanical device or mechanically operated contrivance for the
playing of any game of chance, the use or operation of which is controlled,
permitted or made available by placing therein any coin, plug, disk, key or
token, or which is let for use, operation or play upon the payment or delivery
of anything of value therefor, or upon the making of any purchase.	C.	The
provisions of this section shall not apply to the keeping, possessing or
exhibiting of any such mechanical contrivance or device at or in any mercantile
store in which such mechanical contrivances or devices are kept solely for sale
and which mechanical contrivances or devices members of the public are not
permitted or allowed to operate, manipulate or play except as incident to a
demonstration for the purpose of sale.	This section is not unconstitutional,
although it pertains to machines in which a degree of skill may be developed.
	People v. Hambro, CR A 1856
	People v. Eisenberg CR A 1900
	People v. Chuba CR A 2391
