                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEFINITIONS. (§ 43.00)

  DEFINITIONS.

	For the purpose of this article the following words and phrases are defined and
shall be construed as hereinafter set out, unless it shall be apparent from the
context that they have a different meaning:

	“Chain Letter Scheme” shall mean and include any system, scheme or device,
whether operated by letters, circulars, cards or other written or printed
instrumentalities, or orally, or by any other system whatsoever, whereby it is
represented, proposed or held out, that upon the payment, deposit, transmission,
donation or surrender of any sum of money, or any other thing of value, the
person so paying, depositing, transmitting, donating or surrendering money, or
other thing of value, may receive in return therefor money, or any other thing
of value, in an amount greater than the sum so paid, deposited, transmitted,
donated, or surrendered by such person; such receipt of money, or other thing of
value, to be in a sum greater than the value of the money, or other thing of
value, paid, deposited, transmitted, donated or surrendered; being dependent,
either wholly or in part, upon that person’s paying, depositing, transmitting,
donating or surrendering money, or any other thing of value; determination of
when such persons shall receive such greater sum of money, or other thing of
value, being effected by any system or scheme whereby the names of persons
paying, depositing, transmitting, donating or surrendering any sum of money, or
other thing of value, are arranged so that the payment, donation or contribution
to them depends upon a scheme whereby their names appear at the top or other
designated place upon a list according to the number, order or rotation of such
persons who have, or who may thereafter pay, deposit, donate, transmit or
surrender any sum of money, or other thing of value, to participate therein.

	“Lottery Ticket” shall mean any ticket, bill, scroll, paper, handbill,
print, statement, chance share, memorandum, figure, character, interest,
instrument or any other object purporting or understood to be or to represent
any interest whatsoever in or depending upon the event of any lottery whether
the same is used or intended for use or has been used or intended for use in a
lottery drawing.

	“Lottery Device” shall mean any tool, brush, punch, stamp, die, cut,
instrument or device used or understood or intended to be used to contrive,
prepare, set up, propose, draw, print, stamp, mark, write or distribute any
lottery or lottery ticket or by which the outcome, results or bets of any
lottery or lottery drawing are prepared, drawn, printed, stamped, marked or
written.

	The words “intended to be used” employed in the definition of
lottery-device in Section 43.00 are descriptive of the device rather than
descriptive of the possession.
	People v. Jackson, CR A 1588.

	The failure to state the objects embraced in the definition of
“lottery-device,” if not attacked by demurrer, is not prejudicial to the
defendant.
	People v. Sielski, CR A 1624.

	“Weighing or Measuring Instrument” shall mean any scale, balance,
receptacle, container, device or other apparatus or equipment by which the
gravity, quantity, extent or volume of anything is compared or determined.
