                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

RETAIL GROCERY PRICE MARKING. (§ 43.26)

  RETAIL GROCERY PRICE MARKING.
	(Added by Ord. No. 153,436, Eff. 3/21/80.)	(a)	Every person owning, operating,
managing, leasing or renting any retail grocery store, grocery department within
a general retail merchandise store, or liquor store shall cause to have a
clearly readable price indicated on each packaged consumer commodity offered for
sale. Each automatic checkout system store, participating in the test provided
for concurrently with adoption of this section, will provide a means by which
the customer may mark individual items. Automatic checkout system stores
participating in said test shall cause to have a clearly readable price
conspicuously displayed on a shelf tag where the item is shelved rather than
indicated on each packaged consumer commodity offered for sale.	(b)	The
provisions of this section shall not apply to any of the following:	(1)	Any
unpackaged fresh food produce;	(2)	Any consumer commodity which is under three
cubic inches in size, weighs less than three ounces and is priced under thirty
cents ($0.30);	(3)	Any consumer commodity offered as a sale item or as a
special;	(4)	Any business which has as its only regular employees the owner
thereof, or the parent, spouse, or child of such owner, or, in addition thereto,
not more than two other regular employees;	(5)	Identical items within a
multi-item package;	(6)	Items sold through a vending machine; and	(7)	Any
consumer commodity, not including packaged produce, which was not generally item
priced as of January 1, 1977, as determined by the State of California
Department of Food and Agriculture.	(c)	The following definitions shall apply
for purposes of this section:	(1)	“Consumer commodity” means:	(A)	Food,
including all material whether solid, liquid, or mixed, and whether simple or
compound, which is used or intended for consumption by human beings or domestic
animals normally kept as household pets, and all substances or ingredients added
to any such material for any purpose, but shall not include individual packages
of cigarettes or individual cigars;	(B)	Paper and plastic products, such as, but
not limited to, napkins, facial tissues, toilet tissues, foil wrapping, plastic
wrapping, paper toweling, and disposable plates and cups;	(C)	Detergents, soaps,
and other cleaning agents; and	(D)	Pharmaceuticals, including non-prescription
drugs, bandages, female hygiene products, and toiletries.	(2)	“Grocery
department” means an area within a general retail merchandise store which is
engaged primarily in the retail sale of packaged food rather than food prepared
for immediate consumption on or off the premises.	(3)	“Grocery store” means
a store engaged primarily in the retail sale of packaged food, rather than food
prepared for consumption on the premises.	(4)	“Sale item or special” means
any consumer commodity offered in good faith for a period of seven days or less,
on sale at a price below the normal price that item is usually sold for in that
grocery store or grocery department.	(5)	“Liquor store” means a store with
an off sale liquor license, as defined in State law, engaged primarily in the
sale of liquor Items.	(6)	“Automatic checkout system” means an electronic
system employing a scanning device combined with a computer and a register to
read a universal product code or similar code on packaging and display and total
the cost of the items purchased.	(d)	Any person intentionally violating any of
the provisions of this section shall be deemed guilty of an infraction, and upon
conviction thereof, shall be subject to the fine for an infraction.
