                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

FORTUNE TELLING. (§ 43.30)

  FORTUNE TELLING.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 158,175, Eff. 9/5/83.)	No person shall advertise by sign,
circular, handbill or in any newspaper, periodical, or magazine, or other
publication or publications, or by any other means, to tell fortunes, to find or
restore lost or stolen property, to locate oil wells, gold or silver or other
ore or metal or natural product; to restore lost love or friendship, to unite or
procure lovers, husbands, wives, lost relatives or friends, for or without pay,
by means of occult or psychic powers, faculities, forces, crafts or sciences,
including clairvoyance, spirits, mediumship, seership, prophecy, astrology,
palmistry, necromancy, cards, talismans, charms, potions, magnetism or
magnetized articles or substances, oriental mysteries, magic of any kind or
nature, or numerology.	No person shall engage in or carry on any business the
advertisement of which is prohibited by this section.	Where the appellant
maintained a sign in her window: “Spiritual Science Readings”; offered to
tell a witness “everything he wanted to know,” for $2.00; he told witness
his wife would return within three days, he was going to receive letters with
money in them, and he would take a trip, and would go back to sea, such facts
constituted a violation of Section 43.30 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code, and
a conviction was affirmed, even though the appellant defended on the ground that
she was a duly ordained minister and that the $2.00 was a donation to the
American Church.
	People v. Merino, CR A 1921.	Even though the appellant received a salary from
the church in return for her collections, she was not exempt under the
provisions of Section 43.31.
	People v. Merino, Supra.	Where the appellant told the witness that she would be
married twice, would marry an attorney, would go to a new job, that the unhappy
part of her life would end July 15, that she was in danger of having an
accident, but would live to be 70 or 80 years old and appellant charged the
witness $1.00, the conviction was sustained even though appellant was an
ordained minister of a bona fide church.
	People v. Norvell, CR A 1956.
	See also: People v. Whittemore, CR A 2031.	“It is not a violation of Section
43.30 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code to tell fortunes unless the person so
doing is engaged in or is carrying on any business of fortune telling, or one or
more of the other activities therein prohibited .&thinsp;.&thinsp;. a single act
does not constitute  a business.” (In this case the court affirmed a
conviction of 43.30 and vagrancy, holding that “a reading of the reporter’s
transcript convinces us that the proof of defendant’s guilt was
overwhelming”; (Bishop dissenting).
	People v. Abdullah et Ahmed Saud, CR A 2008.	“Fortune telling
.&thinsp;.&thinsp;. is the practice of foretelling events, or prophesying the
future, also the practice or art of professing to reveal future events in the
life of another .&thinsp;.&thinsp;. Tested by this definition many of the acts
proved to have been done by defendant, such as narrating the past history of his
visitors and characterizing the personalities of the visitors and advising them
as to their present and future conduct, do not constitute fortune telling. But
other acts shown, such as stating that one visitor would receive a letter from
her brother .&thinsp;.&thinsp;. do come within the above definition
.&thinsp;.&thinsp;. But Section 43.30 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code does not
contain a general prohibition of fortune telling .&thinsp;.&thinsp;. In addition
to the words quoted after the phrase ‘by means of,’ there is an enumeration
of other arts and practices .&thinsp;.&thinsp;. But we are satisfied that one
who advertised merely to tell fortunes, without specifying any of the enumerated
means of doing so, and likewise one who does tell fortunes without professing or
exemplifying any of those means, does not violate this ordinance.”
	People v. Miracles A. Smith, CR A 2034.	A minister who tells fortunes as a
business otherwise than in the performance of his pastoral duties acts in
violation of Section 43.30.
	People v. Bradford, CR A 2076.	Section 43.30 is constitutional, and does not
offend Sections 11 and 21 of Article I of the State Constitution, and even
though it were conceded that astrology is a science such a fact of itself would
not warrant a person in conducting a business of telling fortunes.
	People v. Griffen, CR A 2190.
