                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE DEPARTMENT. (§ 44.02)

  POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE DEPARTMENT.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 175,060, Eff. 3/4/03.)	(a)	The Department shall have the
following powers:	(1)	To investigate statements on: 	(A)	the Notice of
Intention and information submitted in connection with the Notice; and	(B)	the
Report of Results of Activity and information submitted in connection with the
Report; 	(2)	To have access to and inspect and make copies of all books,
records and papers, relating to any solicitation and the distribution of any
contribution received from the solicitation, of the person by whom or on whose
behalf the solicitation is made;	(3)	To investigate the method of making or
conducting any solicitation and to give publicity to its findings in such manner
as the Department deems best to advise the public of the facts of the
solicitation;	(4)	To recall and declare void any Information Card upon receipt
of additional information by the Department which renders incorrect any
statement provided by the applicant that is set forth on the Information Card,
provided that the incorrect statement in question is not an innocent mistake. 
Upon recall, the Department shall issue a new Information Card pursuant to
Subsection (b) of this section.  Upon request, all recalled Information Cards
shall be returned to the Department within 48 hours.	(b)	The Department shall
have the following duties:	(1)	The Department shall issue an Information Card no
later than 15 days after receipt of a Notice of Intention which complies with
the requirements of Section 44.04 of this article; provided that where the
notice is incomplete or otherwise fails to meet the requirements of Section
44.04 of this article, the Department shall, within ten days after receipt of
the notice, notify the applicant in writing of the specific information needed
to meet the requirements of Section 44.04 of this article.  The Department
shall issue an Information Card no later than 15 days after receipt of such
additional information.	(2)	The Department shall indicate on all Information
Cards the following: 	(A)	That the Card is issued only as information for the
public; or	(B)	That the Card is an endorsement, if the Department endorses
pursuant to Section 44.15 of this article;	(C)	The pertinent facts of the
solicitation from the Notice of Intention, including the commencement and
termination dates.
