                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEFINITIONS. (§ 44.00)

  DEFINITIONS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 175,060, Eff. 3/4/03.)

	For the purposes of this article, the following terms are defined and shall be
construed as indicated here unless it is apparent from the context that they
have a different meaning:

	(a)	“Charitable” shall include philanthropic, social service, benevolent,
patriotic, and religious, whether they are actual or purported. 

	(b)	“Contribution” shall include food, clothing, money, property and the
loan of money or property.   

	(c)	“Department” shall mean the Police Department.  

	(d)	“Person” shall be construed as defined in Section 11.01 of this Code.
 

	(e)	“Commercial Fund-Raiser” shall mean any person who for pecuniary
compensation or consideration received solicits or purports to solicit
charitable contributions on behalf of any other person.  Pecuniary compensation
or consideration shall include, but is not limited to, participation on a
percentage basis in any funds solicited or raised.  No natural person who is an
officer, director, or bona fide paid employee of a charitable organization that
is operating in compliance with this article shall be considered a commercial
fund-raiser within the meaning of this article.  Nor shall any natural person
who is working under the direction and control of a commercial fund-raiser be
considered a commercial fund-raiser within the meaning of this article. 

	(f)	“Solicitor” shall mean any person who for pecuniary compensation or
consideration received solicits or purports to solicit charitable contributions
but who is not licensed as a commercial fund-raiser; provided that no natural
person who is an officer, director, or bona fide paid employee of a charitable
organization that is operating in compliance with this article shall be
considered a solicitor within the meaning of this article. 

	(g)	“Solicitation” shall mean and include the following:

	(1)	Any oral or written request for a charitable contribution made,
transmitted, or distributed by any means; and

	(2)	Any offer to sell any service, item, or right to attend any function or
participate in any activity, which offer includes reference to any actual or
purported charitable purpose or charitable organization as an inducement to
purchase the service, item, or right to attend.

	A solicitation shall be deemed completed when made, whether or not the person
making it receives a contribution or makes a sale referred to in this article.
No communication between natural persons personally known to each other shall
constitute a solicitation for purposes of this article.  No communication made
by electronic mail shall constitute a solicitation for purposes of this article
unless the person making the communication is aware that the recipient of the
e-mail is located in the City of Los Angeles.  No information contained on any
website or presented on any television or radio broadcast that is subject to
regulation by the Federal Communications Commission shall constitute a
solicitation for purposes of this article.  Nor shall any statement that a
charitable organization is nonprofit, tax-exempt, or funded or supported by
charitable contributions by itself constitute a solicitation for purposes of
this article.  For purposes of this article, “solicitation” shall not
include any raffle within the meaning of California Penal Code Section 320.5.
