                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

NOTICE OF INTENTION. (§ 44.04)

  NOTICE OF INTENTION.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 175,060, Eff. 3/4/03.)	No person shall solicit or
authorize any other person to solicit any charitable contribution unless a
written Notice of Intention to solicit charitable contributions is filed with
the Department at least 15 days prior to the beginning of the solicitation on a
form furnished by the Department.  A Notice of Intention shall be filed for
each separate special event.  At the option of the person filing the Notice, a
Notice related to an ongoing general appeal for charitable contributions may be
filed on an annual basis.  The Department shall distinguish between special
events and activities related to an ongoing general appeal so as to best inform
the public of the costs and receipts of the various types of charitable
solicitation activities undertaken by the person filing the Notice.  If an
annual Notice is filed, it shall include a description of the activities planned
for the year related to the general appeal of the person filing the Notice, and
the person filing the Notice shall file a separate Notice of Intention for any
charitable solicitation activity that is not included in the annual Notice. 
The Notice of Intention shall include the following information and must be
accompanied by an information card fee of $42.00.  (Amended by Ord. No.
181,919, Eff. 12/2/11.)	(a)	The name of the person registering and desiring to
solicit funds for charitable purposes;	(b)	Whether the person registering is a
natural person, partnership, corporation or association; and,	(1)	If a natural
person, the principal business or residence address and telephone number;	(2)	If
a partnership, the address and telephone number, if any, of the partnership, and
the name and principal business or residence address and telephone number of
each partner;	(3)	If a corporation, the state of incorporation, the address and
telephone number of the corporate headquarters, the mailing address, location,
telephone number, and name of the person in charge of the Los Angeles or other
local office, if any, and the name and title of each officer and director or
trustee;	(4)	If an association, the principal business address and telephone
number of the association, if any, the name and principal business or residence
address and telephone number of each member, unless there are more than ten
members, in which case the association shall provide the name, title, and
principal business or residence address and telephone number of each officer and
director or trustee, and if the association is part of a multi-state
organization, the business address and location of its Los Angeles or other
local office; 	(c)	The purpose of the solicitation and use of the contributions
to be solicited;	(d)	The commencement and termination dates of the solicitation;
	
	(e)	The type of solicitation activity and how it will be conducted;	(f)	An
estimate of the total cost of the solicitation (such estimate may be based on
the most recent comparable solicitation activity, if any, unless the person
filing the Notice expects the cost of the proposed solicitation to be
substantially different);	(g)	The names of any officer, director, trustee,
partner, or any current agent or employee engaging in solicitation of funds who
has been convicted of a felony or a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude within
the past seven years, and the nature of the offense, the State where the
conviction occurred, and the year of the conviction;	(h)	A statement signed
under penalty of perjury by persons authorized by the person filing the Notice
that the signers of the Notice of Intention have read and are familiar with the
provisions of this article.
