                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

COMMERCIAL FUND-RAISERS AND SOLICITORS. (§ 44.14)

  COMMERCIAL FUND-RAISERS AND SOLICITORS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 175,060, Eff. 3/4/03.)	(a)	Commercial Fund-Raisers.  No
commercial fund-raiser shall solicit charitable contributions for any actual or
purported charitable purpose without a license issued by the Department. A
commercial fund-raiser shall not solicit charitable contributions for any person
without first notifying the Department.  A commercial fund-raiser shall notify
the Department in writing of all contracts and working agreements with each
charitable organization with which the commercial fund-raiser is
associated.	(b)	Application. Applicants shall file for a commercial
fund-raiser’s license on forms furnished by the
Department.	(c)	Investigation.  The Department shall  investigate the
applicant and verify:	(1)	That the applicant has not been convicted of a felony
or a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude within the past seven (7) years;
and	(2)	That all statements in the application are true. 	(d)	Issuance.  The
Department shall issue to the applicant a license to solicit as a commercial
fund-raiser when all of the foregoing conditions are met. If all of the
foregoing conditions have not been met, the Department shall deny a license to
the applicant, subject to the following conditions:	(1)	The Department shall
notify the applicant in writing, no later than 15 days after receipt of the
complete application of the reasons for denial of a license;	(2)	The applicant
may appeal the denial of a license by written request filed with the Board of
Police Commissioners within 10 days after notification of the denial;	(3)	The
Board of Police Commissioners shall schedule a hearing within 30 days after
receipt of the request for appeal and shall send notice of the time and place of
the hearing to the applicant by certified mail no later than ten days prior to
the date set for the hearing;	(4)	The applicant and the Department may submit
evidence relative to their respective positions in writing prior to the hearing
or in writing or orally at the hearing and the burden of proof at the hearing
shall be upon the Department; and 	(5)	The hearing shall be held before the
Board of Police Commissioners, which shall notify the applicant in writing of
its decision within five days after completion of the hearing process. The
Department shall immediately issue the license upon a finding by the Board of
Police Commissioners that the Department has failed to sustain its burden of
proof at the hearing.  The Department shall not issue a license upon a finding
by the Board of Police Commissioners that the Department has met its burden of
proof at the hearing. Upon a denial of a license, the Department may seek an
injunction to prohibit any act in violation of this section.	(e)	Revocation.  A
commercial fund-raiser’s license may be revoked if the Department finds that
any act or omission of such commercial fund-raiser or his or her agents or
employees in making any solicitation or in the conduct of the business of a
commercial fund- raiser is illegal or fraudulent. The Department must revoke a
commercial fund-raiser’s license if it finds the existence of any grounds upon
which the issuance of such license would be denied under this section. No
revocation of a commercial fund-raiser’s license shall be effective except
upon notice and an opportunity to be heard as provided in Subsection (d) of this
section.	(f)	Expiration.  Each commercial fund-raiser’s license shall expire
12 months after issuance.	(g)	Funds.  A commercial fund-raiser shall not
commingle charitable contributions with his or her funds or
property.	(h)	Solicitors.	(1)	It shall be unlawful for any commercial
fund-raiser to cause or permit any person for compensation to solicit or receive
any charitable contribution unless such person is licensed as a solicitor by the
Department. Each solicitor shall be under the direction and control of a
licensed commercial fund-raiser.	(2)	Except as provided in Subsections (a)
through (h) of this section, no person shall for compensation solicit charitable
contributions for or on behalf of any other person without a license issued by
the Department.	(3)	Each initial application shall be accompanied by the
applicant’s photograph and fingerprints, on forms prescribed by the
Department, and by a fingerprint processing fee payable to the Department.  The
Department is authorized to adjust the amount of the fee for the processing of
fingerprints so that it is equal in amount to the fee charged to the City of Los
Angeles by the State of California for the processing of fingerprints.  The
fingerprint processing fee shall not exceed the amount charged to the City by
the State.	(4)	A solicitor’s license shall be issued upon verification by the
Department that  the  statements in the application are true and that the
applicant has not been convicted of any felony or misdemeanor involving moral
turpitude within the past seven years.	(5)	A solicitor must notify the
Department in writing of any change of address and of any termination or change
of employment.	(6)	A solicitor’s license may be revoked if the Department
finds that any act or omission of such solicitor in making any solicitation is
illegal or fraudulent. The Department must revoke a solicitor’s license if it
finds the existence of any grounds upon which the issuance of such license would
be denied under this subsection. No revocation of a solicitor’s license shall
be effective except upon notice and an opportunity to be heard as provided in
Subsection (d) of this section.	(7)	Consideration of a solicitor’s license
application and issuance or denial of a license shall be subject to the time
periods and procedures set forth in Subsection (d) of this section.  Each
solicitor’s license shall expire 12 months after issuance.
