                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

NIGHTTIME CURFEW RESTRICTIONS FOR MINORS. (§ 45.03)

  NIGHTTIME CURFEW RESTRICTIONS FOR MINORS.
	(Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 180,173, Eff. 10/5/08.)	(a)	Curfew.  It
is unlawful for any minor under the age of eighteen years to be present in or
upon any public street, avenue, highway, road, curb area, alley, park,
playground, or other public ground, public place or public building, place of
amusement or eating place, vacant lot, or unsupervised place between the hours
of 10:00 p.m. on any day and sunrise of the immediately following
day.	(b)	Exceptions.  The provisions of this section shall not apply
when:	(1)	The minor is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian, other adult
person authorized by the parent or guardian having the care or custody of the
minor, or by his or her spouse eighteen years of age or older; or	(2)	The minor
is on an errand directed by his or her parent, guardian, other adult person
authorized by the parent or guardian having the care or custody of the minor, or
by his or her spouse eighteen years of age or older without any detour or stop;
or	(3)	The minor is attending or going directly to or returning directly home
from a public meeting or a place of public entertainment such as a movie, play,
sporting event, dance or school activity; or	(4)	The presence of a minor in one
or more of the places identified in Subsection (a) is connected with or required
with respect to a business, trade, profession or occupation in which the minor
is lawfully engaged; or	(5)	The minor is involved in an emergency such as a
fire, natural disaster, automobile accident, a situation requiring immediate
action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life, or any unforeseen
combination of circumstances or the resulting state, which calls for immediate
action; or	(6)	The minor is exercising the rights guaranteed by the First
Amendment of the United States Constitution and by Article I, Sections 2, 3, and
4 of the California Constitution; or	(7)	The minor is in a motor vehicle
involved in interstate travel; or	(8)	The minor is emancipated in accordance
with the California Family Code or other applicable state
law.	(c)	Enforcement.  Before taking any action to enforce the provisions of
this section, police officers shall ask the apparent offender’s age and reason
for being in the public place during curfew hours.  The officer shall not issue
a citation or make an arrest under this section unless the officer reasonably
believes that an offense has occurred and that, based on any responses and other
circumstances, no exceptions to this section apply.	(d)	Severability of
Provisions.  If any severable provision of this ordinance or any application of
the provisions is held invalid, that invalidity shall not affect other
provisions or applications of the ordinance, which can be given effect
notwithstanding any invalidity.
