                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DAYTIME CURFEW RESTRICTIONS FOR MINORS. (§ 45.04)

  DAYTIME CURFEW RESTRICTIONS FOR MINORS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 182,084, Eff. 4/13/12.)	(a)	Curfew.  It is unlawful for
any minor under the age of 18, who is subject to compulsory education or to
compulsory continuation education, alone or in concert with others, to be
present in or upon the public streets, highways, roads, alleys, parks,
playgrounds, or other public grounds, public places, public buildings, places or
amusement and eating places, vacant lots or any place open to the public during
the hours of the day when the school, which the minor would normally attend, is
in session, on days when that school is in session.  This section shall not
apply to public sidewalks immediately adjacent to school grounds, the entrance
areas to schools, or to school grounds.	(b)	Exceptions.  The provisions of this
section shall not apply when:	(1)	The minor is accompanied by his or her parent,
guardian, or other adult person authorized by the parent or guardian having the
care or custody of the minor; or	(2)	The minor is on an emergency errand
directed by his or her parent, guardian or other adult person having the care or
custody of the minor; or	(3)	The minor is attending or going directly to or
returning directly from a public meeting or an official school-sponsored
sporting event, dance, or activity which is under the direction, supervision, or
control of an adult and which is organized, arranged, or sponsored by the City,
a local educational authority, or religious or civil organization that is taking
responsibility for the minor; or	(4)	The minor is going directly to or coming
directly from their place of gainful employment; or	(5)	The minor is going
directly to or coming directly from a medical appointment; or	(6)	The minor is
carrying in his or her possession a valid, school issued, off-campus permit or
pass that authorizes the minor to leave the school campus; or	(7)	The presence
of the minor in one or more of the places identified in Subsection (a) is
connected with or required with respect to a business, trade, profession or
occupation in which the minor is lawfully engaged; or	(8)	The minor is involved
in an emergency such as a fire, natural disaster, automobile accident, a
situation requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of
life, or any unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state,
which calls for immediate action; or	(9)	The minor is in a motor vehicle
involved in interstate travel; or	(10)	The minor is authorized to be absent from
his or her school pursuant to the provisions of California Education Code
Section 48205, or any other applicable state or federal law; or	(11)	The minor
is traveling in the general direction of his or her school, regardless of
whether school has already begun.  If the minor is contacted by law enforcement
within a 3 block radius of his or her school within the first 60 minutes after
school has begun, it establishes a rebuttable presumption that the minor is
traveling to his or her school.	(c)	Enforcement.  Before taking any action to
enforce the provisions of this section, police officers shall ask the apparent
offender’s age and reason for being in the public place during curfew hours. 
The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest under this section
unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has occurred, that the
minor is required to be in school, and that based on any responses and other
circumstances, no exceptions to this section apply.  The officer shall identify
the time when the officer first encountered the minor, provide the minor’s
stated age, and articulate the justification for the citation’s issuance
directly on the citation.	(d)	Penalties for Violation.  A violation of this
section is an infraction.  The first and second violations of this section
shall only be punishable by either a requirement to provide an attendance plan
to the court, developed with the minor and/or parent or appropriate guardian, or
to participate in community service or other appropriate community or
school-based program for mentoring, tutoring, credit recovery, or counseling. 
The minor shall not be required to perform community service or fulfill program
attendance for a total time exceeding 20 hours in any 60-day period, and the
hours for performance shall occur during times other than during the minor’s
hours of school attendance or employment.	Third and subsequent violations of
this section shall be punishable by the sanctions for a first or second
violation, or may be punishable by a fine not exceeding twenty dollars ($20.00)
for any individual minor.  At any time, fines may be waived due to
indigence.	(e)	Severability of Provisions.  If any severable provision of this
ordinance or any application thereof is held invalid, that invalidity shall not
affect other provisions or applications of the ordinance which can be given
effect notwithstanding such invalidity.
