                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEFINITIONS. (§ 45.19.6.1)

  DEFINITIONS.
	(Added by Ord. No. 181,069, Eff. 3/14/10*.)*Note: See Sec. 3 of this ordinance,
as clarified by Sec. 10 of Ord. No. 181,157, regarding the effective
date.	A.	The following phrases, when used in this article, shall be construed as
defined in California Health and Safety Code Sections 11006.5, 11018, 11362.5
and 11362.7:	“Attending physician”;
	“Concentrated Cannabis”;
	“Identification card”;
	“Marijuana”;
	“Person with an identification card”;
	“Primary caregiver”; and
	“Qualified patient”.	B.	The following phrases, when used in this article,
shall be construed as defined below.  Words and phrases not defined here shall
be construed as defined in Sections 11.01, 12.03, 45.19.5, 45.21, and 56.45 of
this Code.	“Location”.  The lot or portion of a lot that is used by a
medical marijuana collective.	“Medical marijuana”.  Marijuana used for
medical purposes in accordance with California Health and Safety Code Section
11362.5.	“Medical marijuana collective” (“collective”).  An
incorporated or unincorporated association, composed solely of four or more
qualified patients, persons with identification cards, and designated primary
caregivers of qualified patients and persons with identification cards
(collectively referred to as “members”) who associate at a particular
location to collectively or cooperatively cultivate marijuana for medical
purposes, in strict accordance with California Health and Safety Code Sections
11362.5, et seq.	“Member engaged in the management”.  A member with
responsibility for the establishment, organization, registration, supervision,
or oversight of the operation of a collective, including but not limited to
members who perform the functions of president, vice president, board member,
director, owner, operating officer, financial officer, secretary, treasurer, or
manager of the collective.	“Private medical record”.  Documentation of the
medical history of a qualified patient or person with an identification card. 
“Private medical record” shall not include the recommendation of an
attending physician or doctor for the medical use of marijuana, an
identification card, or the designation of a primary caregiver by a qualified
patient or by a person with an identification card.	“Reasonable
compensation”.  Compensation commensurate with reasonable wages and benefits
paid to employees of IRS-qualified non-profit organizations who have similar job
descriptions and duties, required level of education and experience, prior
individual earnings history, and number of hours worked.  The payment of a
bonus shall not be considered “reasonable compensation”.	“Youth
Center”.  A building, other than a private residence or a multiple dwelling
unit, where the primary use is the administration of programs which provide, on
a regular basis, activities or services to persons who have not yet reached the
age of 18 years with or without the attendance of their family members and the
building has a validly issued building permit or Certificate of Occupancy from
the Department of Building and Safety for the use of a youth center.  (Added by
Ord. No. 181,157, Eff. 6/7/10.)
