                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS. (§ 45.19.6.4)

  MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 181,530, Eff. 1/28/11.)	A.	A medical marijuana collective
shall maintain records at the location accurately and truthfully documenting: 
(1) the full name, address, and telephone number(s) of the owner, landlord
and/or lessee of the location; (2) the full name, address, and telephone
number(s) of all members who are engaged in the management of the collective and
the exact nature of each member’s participation in the management of the
collective; (3) for patient members, either: (a) a copy of the patient
member’s Identification Card, or (b) a copy of the patient member’s valid
government-issued identification and attending physician’s or doctor’s
recommendation; (4) for primary caregiver members, a copy of every written
designation(s) by the primary caregiver’s qualified patient(s) and either: (a)
a copy of the primary caregiver member’s Identification Card, or (b) a copy of
the primary caregiver member’s valid government issued identification; (5)
written documentation of all circumstances under which the collective provided
medical marijuana to a non-member, including but not limited to the
recipient’s full name, address, and telephone number, amount of medical
marijuana received, and medical emergency justification; (6) all receipts of the
collective, including but not limited to all contributions, reimbursements, and
reasonable compensation, whether in cash or in kind, and all expenditures
incurred by the collective for the cultivation of medical marijuana; (7) an
inventory record documenting the dates, amounts, and content testing results of
all marijuana cultivated by the collective, including the amounts of marijuana
stored at the location at any given time; (8) a log documenting each transfer of
marijuana reflecting the amount transferred, the date transferred, and the full
name or Identification Card of the member to whom it was transferred; (9) a log
documenting the date, nature, and response by the collective to all complaints
received by the collective pursuant to Section 45.19.6.3 B.18. of this article;
(10) a copy of the annual audit reports required pursuant to Section 45.19.6.5
A. of this article; (11) the testing log required to be maintained pursuant to
Section 45.19.6.5 C. of this article; and (12) proof of registration with the
Department of Building and Safety in conformance with Section 45.19.6.2 of this
article, including evidence of an accepted registration form.	B.	All records
required by Subsection A. shall be maintained by the collective for a period of
five years and shall be made available by the collective to the Police
Department upon request, except that private medical records shall be made
available by the collective to the Police Department only pursuant to a properly
executed search warrant, subpoena, or court order.  In addition to all other
formats that the collective may maintain, these records shall be stored by the
collective at the location in a printed format in its fire-proof safe.  Any
loss, damage or destruction of the records shall be reported to the Police
Department within 24 hours of the loss, destruction or damage.  In addition to
all other formats that the collective may maintain, these records shall be
stored by the collective at the location in a printed format in its fire-proof
safe.	C.	If the records identified in categories (3), (4), and (8) in Subsection
A. are accessed, the Police Department shall use these records to confirm
that:  (1) the members of the collective are limited to qualified patients,
persons with Identification Cards, and primary caregivers; (2) transfers of
marijuana are only being made to members of the collective, and; (3) marijuana
transfers do not indicate illegal diversion of marijuana, including but not
limited to the unlawful sale of marijuana.  To protect the privacy of the
members to whom the records pertain, the records shall not be accessed or used
for any purpose other than to ensure compliance with this article and/or state
law, and to protect public health and safety.	D.	Collectives shall notify all
members that, pursuant to this section, the collective is required to: (1) for
patient members, maintain copies of either: (a) the patient member’s
Identification Card, or (b) the patient member’s valid government-issued
identification and attending physician’s or doctor’s recommendation; (2) for
primary caregiver members, maintain copies of every written designation(s) by
the primary caregiver’s qualified patient(s) and either: (a) the primary
caregiver member’s Identification Card, or (b) the primary caregiver
member’s valid government issued identification;  (3) maintain records of all
transfers of marijuana with reference to either the Identification Card number
or the name of the member to whom the marijuana was transferred.  Collectives
shall further notify all members of the information set forth in Subsection C.
regarding the use of the records.
