                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

REGISTRATION. (§ 45.19.6.2)

  REGISTRATION.
	(Added by Ord. No. 181,069, Eff. 3/14/10*.)*Note: See Sec. 3 of this ordinance,
as clarified by Sec. 10 of Ord. No. 181,157, regarding the effective
date.	A.	Required.  No collective shall operate until after it has filed a
registration form in accordance with the provisions of this article, has paid
any adopted registration fees, and its registration has been accepted as
complete by the Department of Building and Safety.	B.	Maximum Number of
Collectives.	1.	The maximum number of collectives in the City shall be capped at
70.  However, there may be fewer than 70 collectives if sufficient locations do
not exist consistent with Section 45.19.6.3 A.2. of this article for 70
collectives.  To the fullest extent that locations consistent with Section
45.19.6.3 A.2. of this article exist, the 70 collectives shall be proportionally
distributed by Community Plan Area, based on each Community Plan Area’s
percentage share of the City’s total Community Plan Area population, as
estimated by the Department of City Planning as of October 1, 2008, as shown on
Table 1, below:
  
    
      
        TABLE 1
      
    
    
      
        Community Plan Area (“CPA”)
      
      
        Population
      
      
        Pct of Total
      
      
        # of MMCs
      
    
    
      
        Arleta – Pacoima
      
      
        105,238
      
      
        2.63%
      
      
        2
      
    
    
      
        Bel Air – Beverly Crest
      
      
        21,659
      
      
        0.54%
      
      
        0
      
    
    
      
        Boyle Heights
      
      
        92,626
      
      
        2.31%
      
      
        2
      
    
    
      
        Brentwood – Pacific Palisades
      
      
        57,513
      
      
        1.44%
      
      
        1
      
    
    
      
        Canoga Park – West Hills – Winnetka – Woodland Hills
      
      
        185,670
      
      
        4.64%
      
      
        3
      
    
    
      
        Central City
      
      
        31,900
      
      
        0.80%
      
      
        0
      
    
    
      
        Central City North
      
      
        32,835
      
      
        0.82%
      
      
        1
      
    
    
      
        Chatsworth – Porter Ranch
      
      
        96,251
      
      
        2.40%
      
      
        2
      
    
    
      
        Encino – Tarzana
      
      
        74,820
      
      
        1.87%
      
      
        1
      
    
    
      
        Granada Hills – Knollwood
      
      
        60,843
      
      
        1.52%
      
      
        1
      
    
    
      
        Harbor Gateway
      
      
        42,075
      
      
        1.05%
      
      
        1
      
    
    
      
        Hollywood
      
      
        226,137
      
      
        5.65%
      
      
        4
      
    
    
      
        Mission Hills – North Hills – Panorama City
      
      
        145,551
      
      
        3.64%
      
      
        3
      
    
    
      
        North Hollywood – Valley Village
      
      
        149,245
      
      
        3.73%
      
      
        3
      
    
    
      
        Northeast Los Angeles
      
      
        258,188
      
      
        6.45%
      
      
        5
      
    
    
      
        Northridge
      
      
        67,415
      
      
        1.68%
      
      
        1
      
    
    
      
        Palms- Mar Vista – Del Rey
      
      
        122,666
      
      
        3.06%
      
      
        2
      
    
    
      
        Reseda – West Van Nuys
      
      
        106,125
      
      
        2.65%
      
      
        2
      
    
    
      
        San Pedro
      
      
        81,921
      
      
        2.05%
      
      
        1
      
    
    
      
        Sherman Oaks – Studio City – Toluca Lake – Cahuenga Pass
      
      
        79,028
      
      
        1.97%
      
      
        1
      
    
    
      
        Silverlake – Echo Park
      
      
        82,008
      
      
        2.05%
      
      
        1
      
    
    
      
        South Los Angeles
      
      
        275,400
      
      
        6.88%
      
      
        5
      
    
    
      
        Southeast Los Angeles
      
      
        274,583
      
      
        6.86%
      
      
        5
      
    
    
      
        Sun Valley – La Tuna Canyon
      
      
        93,228
      
      
        2.33%
      
      
        2
      
    
    
      
        Sunland – Tujunga – Lakeview Terrace – Shadow Hills – East La
Tuna Canyon
      
      
        62,644
      
      
        1.56%
      
      
        1
      
    
    
      
        Sylmar
      
      
        79,741
      
      
        1.99%
      
      
        1
      
    
    
      
        Van Nuys – North Sherman Oaks
      
      
        168,987
      
      
        4.22%
      
      
        3
      
    
    
      
        Venice
      
      
        40,943
      
      
        1.02%
      
      
        1
      
    
    
      
        West Adams – Baldwin Hills- Leimert Park
      
      
        182,584
      
      
        4.56%
      
      
        3
      
    
    
      
        West Los Angeles
      
      
        77,012
      
      
        1.92%
      
      
        1
      
    
    
      
        Westchester – Playa Del Rey
      
      
        54,441
      
      
        1.36%
      
      
        1
      
    
    
      
        Westlake
      
      
        120,476
      
      
        3.01%
      
      
        2
      
    
    
      
        Westwood
      
      
        53,491
      
      
        1.34%
      
      
        1
      
    
    
      
        Wilmington – Harbor City
      
      
        80,991
      
      
        2.02%
      
      
        1
      
    
    
      
        Wilshire
      
      
        317,248
      
      
        7.92%
      
      
        6
      
    
    
      
        Total CPA Population as of Oct. 1, 2008
      
      
        4,001,483
      
      
        100%
      
      
        70
      
    
  
	2.	Notwithstanding the maximum number of collectives described above, every
medical marijuana collective, dispensary, operator, establishment, or provider
that (1) was operating in the City on or before September 14, 2007, as proven
through three or more of the following dated records in existence in the name of
the collective or one of its current owners for the collective’s location as
of September 14, 2007: (a)  City of Los Angeles tax registration certificate,
(b) State Board of Equalization seller’s permit, (c) property lease, (d)
business insurance, (e) collective membership forms, and (f) bill issued by a
utility, and one of which must be a City of Los Angeles tax registration
certificate, a State Board of Equalization’s seller’s permit, or a utility
bill; (2) proves through documentary evidence that it has operated continuously
at its September 14, 2007 location, except that its continuous operation may
have been disrupted by one move of location as a result of an enforcement letter
from a federal governmental entity or by closure as a result of an enforcement
letter from the City; (3) proves through documentary evidence that it has been
continuously owned, in whole or in part, by at least one of its owners since
September 14, 2007, or, as confirmed through documentary evidence, meets all of
the following: (a) registered as a California non-profit corporation prior to
the June 7, 2010 effective date of this article, (b) has been in good standing
at all times since its incorporation, and (c) its chief executive officer,
secretary, or chief financial officer identified in its Statement of
Information, as filed most recently with the California Secretary of State prior
to the June 7, 2010 effective date of this article, was one of its owners as of
September 14, 2007; (4) has not been cited for a nuisance or public safety
violation of State or local law; and (5) complies currently or identifies to the
City during the preinspection process a new operating location that meets all of
the distance requirements of Section 45.19.6.3 A.2. of this article, may be
eligible to register and operate if it immediately complies with all provisions
of State Law, is assigned a priority order pursuant to the City Clerk’s
drawing in accordance with Section 45.19.6.2 C.1., satisfies all preinspection
and registration requirements of this article, and within 540 days after the
June 7, 2010 effective date of this article completes its compliance in full
with each provision of this article.  (First Sentence Amended by Ord. No.
181,530, Eff. 1/28/11.)  Any collectives allowed to register and operate in
excess of 70 shall also be proportionally distributed by Community Plan Area,
based on each Community Plan Area’s percentage share of the City’s total
Community Plan Area population, as estimated by the Department of City Planning
as of October 1, 2008 on Table 1, above.  In determining the number of
collectives allowed in each Community Plan Area, the Department of City Planning
shall apply these percentages to the total number of collectives that file their
intent to register with the City Clerk pursuant to Subsection C.1., below. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 181,704, Eff. 5/13/11.)	3.	The total population of the
City, the population of the Community Plan Areas, and whether the citywide and
Community Plan Area caps meet the needs of qualified patients, persons with
identification cards, and their primary caregivers may be reviewed and the caps
may be amended by ordinance after notice and hearing by the City Council. 
Nothing contained in this article shall be interpreted or deemed to grant or
guarantee to any collective, including but not limited to those that meet the
requirements set forth in Section 45.19.6.2 B.2. and those granted a priority
order pursuant to Section 45.19.6.2 C., the ability to find a location in the
Community Plan Area of its choice or within the City more generally that
complies with the preinspection requirements set forth in Section 45.19.6.3
since the requirements for each collective, including, but not limited to its
address and square footage, as well as its ability to find a willing lessor and
to pay rent, are attributes unique to each collective and are beyond the control
of the City.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,530, Eff. 1/28/11.)	C.	Priority
Order.	1.	All collectives that meet the requirements set forth in Paragraph 2.
of Subsection B. above, including but not limited to those collectives that
submitted their notice of intention to register and paid all required fees under
this article in June 2010, shall: (a) personally deliver to the Office of the
City Clerk no earlier than ten business days and no later than fifteen business
days after the effective date of this Temporary Urgency Ordinance: (1) notice of
their intention to register under this article, and (2) all required and
additionally offered documents, including such forms as may be prescribed by the
City Clerk, each under penalty of perjury, that prove that the collective
satisfies each of the provisions of Paragraph 2. of Subsection B., and (b) pay a
fee of $324.00 to the City Clerk and a fee of $151.00 to the Los Angeles Police
Department for each owner and/or member engaged in the management, in order to
continue to be considered for preinspection pursuant to Subsection D., below. 
However, no collective may file their notice of intent with the City Clerk or
continue to be considered for preinspection if one or more of its owners or
members engaged in its management were convicted currently or within the
previous ten years of a felony or a crime of moral turpitude, or are currently
on parole or probation for the sale or distribution of a controlled substance. 
A collective that fully and timely registered with the City under Interim
Control Ordinance No. 179,027, as determined by the City Clerk or the Los
Angeles Superior Court, shall be deemed to have satisfied both the operating
date of September 14, 2007 and the provision of the documents required by
subparagraph (1) of Paragraph 2. of Subsection B., and shall not resubmit those
documents.  A collective that fully and timely submitted its notice of
intention to register and paid all required fees under this article in June 2010
shall be deemed to have satisfied the requirements of this paragraph for payment
of fees, and shall not repay those fees.  As soon as practical after receipt of
all notices of intent to register, the City Clerk shall notify each collective,
by mail to the collective’s location and by posting on the website of the City
Clerk, whether it has satisfied all requirements of Sections 45.19.6.2 B.2 and
45.19.6.2 C.1 and is therefore eligible or ineligible to continue to be
considered for preinspection and registration, and shall hold a drawing of all
eligible collectives for the purpose of selecting those collectives that shall
proceed to preinspection.  The names of the eligible collectives shall be
drawn, up to a maximum of 100 names, and only these collectives shall proceed to
preinspection by the Department of Building and Safety in the priority order in
which their names were drawn by the City Clerk.  Eligible collectives whose
names are not selected may not start the preinspection and registration process,
but may enter any future drawing conducted in accordance with Subsection C.2.,
below.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,530, Eff. 1/28/11.)	The City Clerk’s
determinations of eligibility, ineligibility, and priority order pursuant to
this Temporary Urgency Ordinance shall be final and shall be based exclusively
on the required forms and documentary proof submitted under penalty of perjury
by the collective pursuant to this section, and upon such other government or
utility records as may be obtained by the City Clerk that support or contradict
the documents submitted by the collective.  Any collective that disputes the
City Clerk’s decision that it is ineligible to continue to be considered for
preinspection and registration shall personally deliver its notice of challenge
to the City Clerk within five business days after the date on which the City
Clerk posted its determination of the collective’s ineligibility on its
website.  Late challenges will not be accepted.  The notice of challenge must
be signed under penalty of perjury by the collective.  The names of all
collectives who submit such challenges shall be provisionally added to the names
of eligible collectives for the initial drawing of 100 collective names by the
City Clerk.  If at any time thereafter a court agrees with the City Clerk’s
original determination of ineligibility of the collective, the collective shall
be removed from any and all City priority order and preinspection lists, shall
be disqualified from all further participation in the original and any
subsequent drawings, priority order, preinspection, and registration processes
for those collectives determined to be eligible under this subsection, and shall
immediately cease operation pursuant to Section 45.19.6.7.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 181,530, Eff. 1/28/11.)	2.	If at any time after 540 days following the June
7, 2010 effective date of this article, the total number of registered
collectives in the City falls below 70, the City Clerk shall hold, at such time
as the City Clerk determines in its sole discretion, additional drawings for the
purpose of determining the priority order in which the Department of Building
and Safety will consider preinspection and registration of additional
collectives.  Each such drawing shall select the number of collective names for
preinspection that would bring the total number of registered collectives in the
City to 70, and shall select only from the names of eligible collectives that
were not previously drawn pursuant to Subsection C.1. above, until all such
eligible collective names have been drawn.  Once all of the eligible collective
names have been drawn, any collective that notifies the City Clerk within one
week after the publication of the date of a priority drawing and pays a fee of
$50.00 to the City Clerk and a fee of $151.00 to the Los Angeles Police
Department for each owner and/or member engaged in the management shall be
eligible to participate in the drawings.  However, no collective may
participate in a drawing if one or more of its owners or members engaged in its
management were convicted currently or within the previous 10 years of a felony
or a crime of moral turpitude, or are currently on parole or probation for the
sale or distribution of a controlled substance.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,704,
Eff. 5/13/11.)	The City Clerk shall: create the entry form for participation in
the drawings; set the deadline for submittal of all entry forms; establish and
publish the drawings’ dates, times, and places; publish the results of all
drawings; and have the authority to promulgate additional drawing rules and
regulations.  All such rules and regulations shall be published once in a daily
newspaper of general circulation in the City, and shall take effect upon
publication.  A member engaged in the management of the collective must be
present at a drawing in order for the collective to participate.	The order
established by the City Clerk in the drawing shall be used by the Department of
Building and Safety to determine the order in which the Department of Building
and Safety will conduct preinspections pursuant to Subsection D., below, of the
collectives that are eligible to register pursuant to this
subdivision.	D.	Preinspection.  A collective that is eligible  to apply for
preinspection pursuant to Subsections B. or C., above, may thereafter apply to
the Department of Building and Safety for  preinspection to verify compliance
with the standards set forth in Section 45.19.6.3 A. of this article.  The
collective shall provide the address of the proposed collective location; the
name, telephone number, and address of a person authorized to accept service of
process for the collective; the name(s), telephone number(s), and address(es) of
each member engaged in the management of the collective; and a 1,000-foot radius
map signed by a licensed civil engineer, architect or land surveyor, that
locates and identifies all sensitive uses set forth in Section 45.19.6.3 A.2. of
this article.  A preinspection fee pursuant to Section 91.107.3.2 of this Code,
plus a research fee for a minimum of three hours of time pursuant to Section
98.0415(f) of this Code, and a registration fee of $688.00 plus any applicable
surcharges, shall be paid to the Department of Building and Safety at the time
of a request for preinspection.  The Department of Building and Safety shall
proceed by priority order within each Community Plan Area to evaluate the
compliance of the proposed collectives with the requirements of Section
45.19.6.3 A. of this article. Once the Department of Building and Safety has
determined that the maximum number of collectives authorized by Subsection B. of
this section complies, the Department of Building and Safety shall stop
determining the compliance of more collectives.  Any collective not in
compliance with the requirements of Section 45.19.6.3 A. of this article, as
determined by the Department of Building and Safety, or not considered for
compliance because the cap had already been met, shall be notified by the
Department of Building and Safety that it is disqualified from the preinspection
and registration process and that it may enter any future drawing conducted in
accordance with Subsection C., above.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,157, Eff.
6/7/10.)	E.	Notice of Preinspection.  Prior to accepting a request for
preinspection, the Department of Building and Safety shall require proof that
the collective has provided written notice to the Police Department, all
property owners and occupants within and outside the City that are within 1,000
feet of the exterior boundaries of the location, and to the City Council member
of the district in which the collective is proposed to be located, the Certified
Neighborhood Council, and any Business Improvement District (“BID”)
representing the area in which the collective is located, of: the preinspection
request; the proposed location of the collective; the name, telephone number,
and address of a person authorized to accept service of process for the
collective; the name(s), telephone number(s), and address(es) of each member
engaged in the management of the collective; and the onsite telephone number at
the collective and the name of the member engaged in the management of the
collective who is responsible for receiving, logging, and responding to
complaints regarding the collective.  This notification shall be sent by
certified mail, postage prepaid, and return receipt requested.  Notices to
property owners shall be sent to the last known name and address as shown on the
records of the City Engineer or the records of the County Assessor; notices to
occupants of all residential, commercial and industrial property can be mailed
to “occupant”.  Proof of mailing shall be established if the collective
files an affidavit of mailing with the Department of Building and Safety
certifying the date on which the notice was sent, a copy of the notice, and a
complete list of the names and addresses where the notice was sent.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 181,595, Eff. 4/10/11.)	F.	Registration Form.  (Amended by Ord. No.
181,157, Eff. 6/7/10.)  Upon receipt of a Department of Building and Safety
pre-inspection report verifying compliance with the standards set forth in
Section 45.19.6.3 A. of this Article, the collective shall file a registration
form with the Department of Building and Safety.  The registration form shall
require the following accurate and truthful information:  the address and
physical description (e.g., one-story commercial building, etc.) of the proposed
location at and upon which the collective will be located; the name, telephone
number, and address of a person authorized to accept service of process for the
collective; the name(s), telephone number(s), and address(es) of each member
engaged in the management of the collective; the onsite telephone number at the
collective and the name of the member engaged in the management of the
collective who is responsible for receiving, logging, and responding to
complaints regarding the collective; and any other information reasonably
required to show that the collective complies with this Article.  In addition,
the registration form shall confirm the consent by the collective, without
requirement for a search warrant, subpoena or court order, for the inspection
and copying by the Police Department of the recordings and records required to
be maintained under Sections 45.19.6.3, 45.19.6.4, and 45.19.6.5 of this
Article, except that private medical records shall be made available by the
collective to the Police Department only pursuant to a properly executed search
warrant, subpoena, or court order.	The collective shall file an updated
registration form quarterly, but only if there were changes during the previous
quarter to any of the information provided in the initial registration form or
any change in status of compliance with the regulations set forth in Section
45.19.6.3 of this Article.  Each updated registration form shall be accompanied
by a fee of $140.00 plus any applicable surcharges.  If an enforcement action
has been filed against the collective for any violation of this Article, the
updated registration form shall include the names of all of the members of the
collective.  A change of location cannot be accomplished by an updated
registration form, but shall instead require a new pre-inspection and
registration.  Each and every member who is engaged in the management of the
collective shall print his or her name and sign the initial registration form
and any subsequent updated registration form, under penalty of perjury
certifying that all information contained in the registration form is true and
correct.  It shall be the sole responsibility of the members engaged in the
management of the collective to ensure that all forms and documents are
submitted as required by this Article and that the information provided is
accurate, complete and timely submitted.  A collective cannot operate under an
updated registration until the updated registration has been filed with the
Department of Building and Safety and the appropriate fee has been
paid.	G.	Additional Registration Documents.  As attachments to the original and
any subsequently updated registration form, the collective shall provide to the
Department of Building and Safety:  (1) proof that the property owner of the
location, and landlord if applicable, was given written notice sent by certified
mail, postage prepaid, and return receipt requested that the collective intends
to file the registration form and that the owner of the location, and landlord
if applicable, has received a copy of the information contained in the
registration form; (2) for each member engaged in the management of the
collective, a fully legible copy of one government-issued form of
identification, such as a social security card, a state driver’s license or
identification card, or a passport; and (3) the collective’s Certificate of
Occupancy within 10 days of issuance.	H.	Registration Timetables.  All
collectives that meet the requirements described in Subsection B., above, shall
comply with the following timetable:  (1) they shall notify the City Clerk of
their intent to register under this article within one week after the effective
date of this ordinance; (2) they shall complete their preinspection obligations
under Subsections D. and E., above, within thirty (30) days after receiving
priority under Subsection C., above, to apply for preinspection; and (3) they
shall comply in full with all registration and other provisions of this article
within 540 days after the effective date of this ordinance.  All other
collectives shall comply with the following timetable:  (1) they shall notify
the City Clerk of their intent to register under this article within one week
after the publication by the City Clerk of the date of a priority drawing that
will be conducted because the total number of registered collectives in the City
has fallen below 70; and (2) they shall complete their preinspection obligations
under Subsections D. and E., above, within thirty (30) days after receiving
priority order under Subsection C., above, to apply for preinspection; and (3)
they shall comply in full with all registration and other provisions of this
article within 180 days after the publication by the City Clerk of the date of a
priority drawing that will be conducted because the total number of registered
collectives in the City has fallen below 70.  A collective that does not comply
with its applicable timetable shall be disqualified from further participation
in the registration process.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,704, Eff. 5/13/11.)	For
the purposes of this subsection, a collective shall be in compliance with
Section 45.19.6.3 A. of this article if it has obtained all required building
permit(s) and the permit(s) is valid and has not been expired by the Department
of Building and Safety pursuant to the provisions of Section 98.0602 of the
Code.  Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 12.26 A.3. of the Code, the
submission of plans sufficient for a complete plan check and the payment of a
fee shall not confer a vested right to establish a collective.  The provisions
of Section 91.106.4.3.1 of this Code shall apply to any building permit issued
for a collective.	I.	Completed Registration.  The Department of Building and
Safety, after verification that all required fees have been paid, shall mail
proof of a completed registration and any subsequent updated registration to the
person authorized to accept service of process on behalf of the collective, to
the owner of the location, the City Council member of the district in which the
collective is located, the Certified Neighborhood Council, and to any applicable
Business Improvement District (“BID”) in which the collective is
located.	J.	Term of Registration/Renewal.  Each registration shall expire two
years from the date the Department of Building and Safety mails proof of the
completed registration to the person authorized to accept service of process on
behalf of the collective.  A collective that has operated at all times in
strict compliance with this article may seek to renew its registration 90 days
prior to the registration’s expiration.  The process for renewal of the
registration shall be the same as the process for the original registration as
set forth in this section except that any and all applicable 360-day deadlines
to comply shall be reduced to 90 days to comply.  Upon registration expiration
without renewal, the collective shall cease all operations.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 181,530, Eff. 1/28/11.)	K.	Registration Null and Void.  A registration
accepted as complete under this article shall become null and void upon the
cessation of marijuana cultivation at the location for 90 days or longer, upon
the relocation of the collective to a different location, upon conviction of the
collective or any of its members for a violation of a provision of this article,
or two years after the issuance of the registration as set forth in Subsection
I., above, if not renewed.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,530, Eff. 1/28/11.)	L.	No
Vested or Nonconforming Rights.  No registration or building permit issued
pursuant to this article shall confer vested or nonconforming rights upon
anyone, including but not limited to the collective, its owners, its management,
its members, or the property owner of its location, to the continued operation
of a collective at the location at any time after the expiration of the
registration of the collective.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,530, Eff. 1/28/11.)
