                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DISPLAY OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA TO MINORS. (§ 45.19)

  DISPLAY OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA TO MINORS.
	(Added By Ord. No. 153,791, Eff. 6/16/80.)	A.	Management.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 174,793, Eff. 10/6/02.)	1.	It shall be unlawful for any person in charge or
control of any business establishment where drug paraphernalia is displayed for
sale, offered for sale or sold, to knowingly allow or permit a minor, not
accompanied by one or both of his or her parents or by his or her legal
guardian, to enter and remain within any business establishment where drug
paraphernalia is displayed for sale, offered for sale or sold.	2.	It shall be
unlawful for any person in charge or control of a business establishment where
drug paraphernalia is displayed for sale, offered for sale, or sold, to fail to
display and maintain or fail to cause to be displayed and maintained, at least
one sign stating that a minor may not enter unless accompanied by one or both of
his or her parents or by his or her legal guardian.  These signs shall be
placed in a conspicuous location near each public entrance to the business
establishment where drug paraphernalia is displayed for sale, offered for sale,
or sold.	3.	In the event a substantial number of the public invitees or patrons
of a business establishment where drug paraphernalia is displayed for sale,
offered for sale or sold, uses a language other than English as a primary
language, any sign required pursuant to this section shall be worded in both
English and the language or languages involved.	B.	Minors.  In the event a sign
or signs have been posted as required by Subsection A above, it shall be
unlawful for a minor to enter any business establishment where drug
paraphernalia is displayed for sale, offered for sale or sold, unless a minor is
accompanied by one or both of his or her parents or by his or her legal
guardian.  (Amended by Ord. No. 174,793, Eff.
10/6/02.)	C.	Definitions.	1.	“Drug paraphernalia,” including but not limited
to one or more of those items identified in that list set forth in Subdivision 3
hereinbelow, shall mean any device designed primarily for use by individuals for
the smoking or ingestion of marijuana, hashish, hashish oil, cocaine, or any
other “controlled substance,” as that term is defined in the Health and
Safety Code of the State of California.	2.	A device “designed primarily for”
such smoking or ingestion set forth in Subdivision 1 above is a device which has
been fabricated, constructed, altered, adjusted, or marked especially for use in
the smoking or ingestion of marijuana, hashish, hashish oil, cocaine, or any
other “controlled substance,” and is peculiarly adapted to such purposes by
virtue of a distinctive feature or combination of features associated with drug
paraphernalia, notwithstanding that it might also be possible to use such
service for some other purpose.	3.	Includable Items or Devices:	(a)	Metal,
wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic pipes, with or without
screens, permanent or otherwise, heads, or punctured metal bowls;	(b)	A device
constructed so as to prevent the escape of smoke into the air and to channel
smoke into a chamber where it may be accumulated to permit inhalation or
ingestion of larger quantities of smoke than would otherwise be possible,
whether the device is known as a “bong,” or otherwise;	(c)	A smokable pipe
constructed with a receptacle or container in which water or other liquid may be
placed into which smoke passes and is cooled in the process of being inhaled or
ingested;	(d)	A smokable pipe which contains a heating unit, whether the device
is known as an “electric pipe,” or otherwise;	(e)	A device constructed so as
to permit the simultaneous mixing and ingestion of smoke and nitrous oxide or
other compressed gas, whether the device is known as a “buzz bomb,” or
otherwise;	(f)	A canister, container or other device with a tube, nozzle or
other similar arrangement attached thereto so constructed as to permit the
forcing of smoke accumulated therein into the user’s lungs under
pressure;	(g)	A device for holding a cigarette, whether the device is known as a
“roach clip,” or otherwise;	(h)	A spoon for ingestion through the
nose;	(i)	A straw or tube for ingestion through the nose or mouth.
