                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

REGULATIONS. (§ 45.19.6.3)

  REGULATIONS.
	(Added by Ord. No. 181,069, Eff. 3/14/10*.)*Note: See Sec. 3 of this ordinance,
as clarified by Sec. 10 of Ord. No. 181,157, regarding the effective date.	The
location at or upon which a collective cultivates and provides medical marijuana
to its members must meet the following requirements:	A.	Preinspection
Requirements.	1.	The location shall comply with the provisions of Chapter I and
IX of the Code;	2.	The location of the collective shall comply with the
following distance requirements:	a.	No collective shall be located within a
1,000-foot radius of a school, public park, public library, religious
institution, licensed child care facility, youth center, substance abuse
rehabilitation center, or any other medical marijuana collective(s).  The
distances specified in this paragraph shall be the horizontal distance measured
in a straight line from the property line of the school, public park, public
library, religious institution, licensed child care facility, youth center,
substance abuse rehabilitation center, or other medical marijuana collective(s),
to the closest property line of the lot on which the collective is located
without regard to intervening structures.  This provision shall not apply to a
collective that is also a licensed residential medical or eldercare facility;
and	b.	No collective shall be located on a lot abutting, across the street or
alley from, or having a common corner with a residentially zoned lot or a lot
improved with a residential use, including a mixed use residential building. 
This provision shall not apply to a collective that is also a licensed
residential medical or eldercare facility;	3.	Exterior building lighting and
parking area lighting for the location must be in compliance with Sections
93.0104, 93.0107 and 93.0117 of the Code.  In addition, the location shall be
equipped with lighting fixtures of sufficient intensity to illuminate all
interior areas of the lot with an illumination of not less than 1.5 foot-candles
evenly distributed as measured at floor level, except that a licensed
residential medical or eldercare facility shall not be required to comply with
this provision;	4.	No interior illumination of any exterior signs or any
interior signs visible from the exterior shall be allowed;	5.	Windows and roof
hatches of the building or portion of the building where the collective is
located shall be secured from the inside with bars so as to prevent unauthorized
entry, and shall be equipped with latches that may be released quickly from the
inside to allow exit in the event of emergency in compliance with all applicable
building code provisions;	6.	Exterior doors to the collective shall remain
locked from the outside to prevent unauthorized ingress to the premises of the
collective.  Ingress shall be allowed by means of a remote release operated
from within the premises of the collective.  In all cases, doors shall remain
openable from the inside to allow egress without the use of a key or special
knowledge.  If installed, access-controlled egress doors shall comply with
Section 1008.1.3.4 of the California Building Code;	7.	A sign shall be posted in
a conspicuous location inside the structure at the location advising:  “This
collective is registered in accordance with the laws of the City of Los
Angeles.  The sale of marijuana and the diversion of marijuana for non-medical
purposes are violations of State law.  The use of marijuana may impair a
person’s ability to drive a motor vehicle or operate heavy machinery. 
Loitering at the location of a medical marijuana collective for an illegal
purpose is prohibited by California Penal Code Section 647(h)”; and	8.	A sign
shall be posted at the entrance to the location containing the name and
functioning telephone number of a 24-hour on-call member engaged in the
management of the collective who shall receive, log, and respond to complaints
and other inquires on behalf of the collective.	B.	Conditions of
Operation.	1.	The location shall be monitored at all times by web-based
closed-circuit television for security purposes.  The camera and recording
system must be of adequate quality, color rendition and resolution to allow the
ready identification of any individual committing a crime anywhere on or
adjacent to the location.  The recordings shall be maintained for a period of
not less than ninety days and shall be made available by the collective to the
Police Department upon request;	2.	The location shall have a centrally-monitored
fire and burglar alarm system and the building or the portion of the building
where the collective is located shall contain a fire-proof safe;	3.	No
cultivation of medical marijuana at the location shall be visible with the naked
eye from any public or other private property, nor shall cultivated marijuana or
dried marijuana be visible from the building exterior.  No cultivation shall
occur at the location unless the area devoted to the cultivation is secured from
public access by means of a locked gate and any other security measures
necessary to prevent unauthorized entry;	4.	No manufacture of concentrated
cannabis in violation of California Health and Safety Code section 11379.6 is
allowed;	5.	No collective shall be open or provide medical marijuana to its
members between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m.  This prohibition shall
not apply to a qualified patient’s use of marijuana for his or her own medical
needs if the qualified patient’s permanent legal residence is the
location;	6.	No collective shall operate for profit.  Cash and in-kind
contributions, reimbursements, and reasonable compensation provided by members
towards the collective’s actual expenses of the growth, cultivation, and
provision of medical marijuana shall be allowed provided that they are in strict
compliance with State Law.  All such cash and in-kind amounts and items shall
be fully documented in accordance with Section 45.19.6.4 of this article;	7.	No
persons under the age of eighteen shall be allowed at the location, unless that
minor is a qualified patient or person with an identification card and
accompanied by his or her licensed attending physician, parent or documented
legal guardian;	8.	No collective shall possess more dried marijuana or plants
per member other than the amounts permitted pursuant to State Law.  No
collective shall possess or provide marijuana other than marijuana that was
cultivated by the collective in strict accordance with State Law and this
article;	9.	The light fixtures required in Section 45.19.6.3 A.3., above, shall
be turned on from dusk to dawn;	10.	No collective may provide medical marijuana
to any persons other than its members who participate in the collective
cultivation of marijuana at or upon the location of that collective.  No
medical marijuana provided to a primary caregiver may be supplied to any
person(s) other than the primary caregiver’s qualified patient(s) or person(s)
with an identification card;	11.	No collective shall cause or permit the sale,
dispensing, or consumption of alcoholic beverages at the location or in the
parking area of the location;	12.	No dried medical marijuana shall be stored in
buildings that are not completely enclosed, or stored in an unlocked vault or
safe, or other unsecured storage structure; nor shall any dried medical
marijuana be stored in a  safe or vault that is not bolted to the floor or
structure of the facility;	13.	Medical marijuana may not be inhaled, smoked,
eaten, ingested, or otherwise consumed at the location, in the parking areas of
the location, or in those areas restricted under the provisions of California
Health and Safety Code Section 11362.79.  This prohibition shall not apply to a
qualified patient’s use of marijuana for his or her own medical needs if the
qualified patient’s permanent legal residence is the location, nor shall this
prohibition limit the exceptions provided in local and state law that permit
smoking in designated areas within licensed residential medical and eldercare
facilities;	14.	Only members of the collective may be engaged in the management
of the collective.  A person who has been convicted currently or within the
previous ten years of a felony or a crime of moral turpitude, or who is
currently on parole or probation for the sale or distribution of a controlled
substance, as determined by the Police Department, shall not be engaged directly
or indirectly in the management of the collective and, further, shall not
manage, handle, or benefit from the receipts and expenses of the collective. 
Verification shall be processed and received by the Police Department in
accordance with the State of California Department of Justice guidelines.  All
requests for verification shall be accompanied by a processing fee of $151.00
for each owner and/or member engaged in the management.  No person may be
engaged in the management of more than one collective located within the City; 
(Amended by Ord. No. 181,157, Eff. 6/7/10.)	15.	No qualified patient, person
with an identification card, or primary caregiver may be a member, at the same
time, of more than one collective located within the City, except that in the
event of a medical emergency, a qualified patient, person with an identification
card, or primary caregiver may obtain medical marijuana sufficient to meet that
medical emergency from another collective located within the City.  In addition
to all other required documentation, for a medical emergency, the qualified
patient, person with an identification card, or primary caregiver shall provide
written proof of the medical emergency and, as applicable, his or her attending
physician or doctor recommendation, identification card, and, in the case of a
primary caregiver, the patient designation to both the member’s collective and
to the collective that is distributing the emergency medical marijuana.  This
written documentation shall be maintained in the records of both
collectives;	16.	Collectives shall not store more than $200.00 in cash overnight
at the location and shall make twice daily bank drops that include all cash
collected on that day;	17.	Collectives shall provide a state-licensed and
uniformed security guard patrol for a two-block radius surrounding the location
during all hours of operation.  Security guards shall not possess firearms or
tasers;	18.	Collectives shall operate and maintain an onsite 24-hour telephone
number at the collective for receiving complaints and other inquiries regarding
the collective.  A member engaged in the management of the collective shall be
responsible for receiving, logging, and responding to these complaints and other
inquires.  The log shall be maintained in the records of the collective;
and	19.	The results of the testing performed pursuant to Section 45.19.6.5 of
this article shall be posted in a prominent location in the interior of the
collective.
