                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

AUDITS AND TESTING. (§ 45.19.6.5)

  AUDITS AND TESTING.
	(Added by Ord. No. 181,069, Eff. 3/14/10*.)*Note: See Sec. 3 of this ordinance,
as clarified by Sec. 10 of Ord. No. 181,157, regarding the effective
date.	A.	Annual Audits.  No later than February 15 of every year, each
collective shall file with the City Controller an audit of its operations of the
previous calendar year, completed and certified by an independent certified
public accountant in accordance with generally accepted auditing and accounting
principles.  The audit shall include but not be limited to a discussion,
analysis, and verification of each of the records required to be maintained
pursuant to Section 45.19.6.4 of this article.	B.	Testing of Medical
Marijuana.  The collective shall use an independent and certified laboratory to
analyze a representative sample of dried medical marijuana and a representative
sample of edible marijuana for pesticides and any other regulated contaminants
pursuant to established local, state, or federal regulatory or statutory
standards at levels of sensitivity established for the food and drug supply
before providing the medical marijuana to its members.  Any medical marijuana
from which the representative sample analysis tested positive for a pesticide or
other contaminant at a level which exceeds the local, state, or federal
regulatory or statutory standard for the food and drug supply shall not be
provided to members and shall be destroyed forthwith.  Any medical marijuana
provided to members shall be properly labeled in strict compliance with state
and local laws.	C.	Testing Log.  The collective shall maintain a written log at
the location documenting the date, type, and amount of marijuana tested; the
name of the laboratory where the marijuana was tested; the laboratory report
containing the results of the testing, including the name and level of the
substance detected; and the disposition of the marijuana from which the
contaminated sample was obtained, including the amount of marijuana and the date
and manner of disposition.
