                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEFINITIONS. (§ 45.21)

  DEFINITIONS.
	(Added by Ord. No. 172,212, Eff. 10/23/98, Oper. 10/23/99.)	The following words
and phrases, whenever used in this article, shall be construed as defined in
this section.  Words and phrases not defined herein shall be construed as
defined in Sections 11.01, 12.03 and 91.6203 of this Code.	A.	Entertainment Park
– a commercial enterprise that offers rides, games and other
entertainment.	B.	Public Parks and Playgrounds – an area of land, beach or
pier set aside for public recreational and/or ornamental purposes, which is
under the control, operation or management of a governmental agency, and wherein
there may be an area containing, but not limited to, equipment such as swings
and seesaws, athletic fields, baseball diamonds, basketball courts, tennis
courts, or swimming pools.	C.	Publicly Visible Location – any outdoor location
visible to the general public including, but not limited to, off-site signs,
pole signs, wall signs, projecting signs, monument signs, illuminated
architectural canopy signs, marquee signs, mural signs, freestanding signboards,
and roof signs, and, including, any location that is inside a building wherein
the sign is attached to, affixed to, leaning against, or otherwise placed within
three feet of any window or door in such a manner that it is visible from
outside the building.  The term “publicly visible location” shall not
include any location that is visible only by those inside the building
premises.	D.	Religious Institution – any building or structure that is
maintained and used exclusively for religious worship, including customary
incidental, educational and social activities in conjunction
therewith.	E.	Residential Use – any lot that is identified in the adopted
Community Plan as having a Commercial Land Use designation that permits
residential uses.	F.	Residential Zone – any RA, RE, RS, R1, RU, RW1, R2, RD,
RMP, RW2, R3, R4 or R5 zoned lot as set forth in Section 12.04 of this
Code.	G.	Schools – an institution of learning for minors, whether public or
private, which offers instruction in those courses of study required by the
California Education Code or which is maintained pursuant to standards set by
the State Board of Education. This definition includes kindergarten, elementary,
junior high, senior high or any special institution of learning under the
jurisdiction of the State Department of Education, but it does not include a
vocational or professional institution or an institution of higher education,
including a community or junior college, college or university.	H.	Tobacco
Products – any substance containing tobacco leaf, including but not limited to
cigarettes, cigars, pipes, tobacco snuff, chewing tobacco and dipping tobacco;
cigarette papers; or any other instrument or paraphernalia that is designed for
the smoking or ingestion of tobacco or products prepared from tobacco.	I.	Youth
Center – any designated indoor, public, private or parochial facility, other
than a private residence or a multiple dwelling unit, which contains programs
which provide, on a regular basis, activities or services for persons who have
not yet reached the age of 18 years, including, but not limited to,
community-based programs, after-school programs, weekend programs, violence
prevention programs, leadership development programs, vocational programs,
substance abuse prevention programs, individual or group counseling, remedial,
tutorial or other educational assistance or enrichment, music, art, dance and
other recreational or cultural activities, physical fitness activities and
sports programs.
