                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

EXCEPTIONS. (§ 45.23)

  EXCEPTIONS.
	(Added by Ord. No. 172,212, Eff. 10/23/98, Oper. 10/23/99.)	The prohibitions
set forth in this article shall not apply to the following signs advertising
tobacco products.  This section shall not be construed to permit any sign that
is otherwise restricted or prohibited by law.	A.	The placement of signs
advertising tobacco products:	(1)	Inside the premises of a building that
lawfully sells tobacco products, unless such sign is attached to, affixed to,
leaning against, or otherwise placed within three feet of any window or door in
such a manner that it is visible from outside the building; or	(2)	On commercial
vehicles used exclusively for transporting tobacco products.	B.	Any on-site sign
that contains the name or slogan of a business that lawfully sells tobacco
products that has been placed at or upon the business premises for the purpose
of identifying the business.	C.	Any on-site sign that contains only generic word
descriptions of cigarettes, cigars, tobacco, smoke, or any other generic
description of tobacco products.	D.	Any neon or electrically charged sign, if
otherwise allowed by the Los Angeles Municipal Code, within the premises of a
building that lawfully sells tobacco products that is provided as part of a
promotion of a particular brand of tobacco products, unless such sign is
attached to, affixed to, leaning against, or otherwise placed within three feet
of any window or door in such a manner that it is visible from outside the
building.	E.	Any sign located inside a stadium, arena, or amphitheater, provided
the sign cannot be seen from outside the stadium, arena, or amphitheater.	F.	Any
sign or other form of advertising on a Metropolitan Transit Authority vehicle,
or any other government operated, contracted or licensed mode or method of
transportation.  This exception shall not apply to any mode or method of
transportation operated, contracted or licensed by the City of Los
Angeles.	G.	The display of public service messages or similar announcement
opposing the use of tobacco products or that are designed to encourage minors to
refrain from using or purchasing tobacco products.  However, this subsection
shall not be construed to permit an advertisement which purports to oppose the
use of tobacco products when that message is conveyed in conjunction with the
display of a recognized tobacco company logo, trademark or name used for
marketing or promotion of tobacco products.	H.	Any sign advertising of tobacco
products that is otherwise consistent with the signage provisions contained in
Article IV and Exhibit I of the Reciprocal Easement and Environmental
Restriction Agreement by and among the City of Los Angeles, the Community
Redevelopment Agency of the City of Los Angeles, and L. A. Arena Land Company,
Inc., recorded in the official records of the County of Los Angeles as
Instrument No. 95801502.
	I.	The display of any non-commercial message.
