                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEFINITIONS. (§ 45.61)

  DEFINITIONS.	The following words and phrases, whenever used in this article,
shall be construed as defined in this section. Words and phrases not defined
herein shall be construed as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code, if defined
therein.	A.	Housing Services: Services connected with the use or occupancy of a
rental unit including but not limited to, utilities (including light, heat,
water and telephone), ordinary repairs or replacement, and maintenance,
including painting. This term shall also include the provision of elevator
service, laundry facilities and privileges, common recreational facilities,
janitor service, resident manager, refuse removal, furnishings, food service,
parking and any other benefits, privileges or facilities.	B.	Landlord: An owner,
lessor, or sublessor, (including any person, firm, corporation, partnership, or
other entity) who receives or is entitled to receive rent for the use of any
rental unit, or the agent, representative or successor of any of the
foregoing.	C.	Rent: The consideration, including any bonus, benefits or
gratuity, demanded or received by a landlord for or in connection with the use
or occupancy of a rental unit, including but not limited to monies demanded or
paid for the following: meals where required by the landlord as a condition of
the tenancy; parking; furnishings; other housing services of any kind;
subletting; or security deposits.	D.	Rental Units: All dwelling units,
efficiency dwelling units, guest rooms, and suites in the City of Los Angeles,
as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code, rented or offered for rent for living
or dwelling purposes, the land and buildings appurtenant thereto, and all
housing services, privileges, furnishings and facilities supplied in connection
with the use or occupancy thereof, including garage and parking facilities. This
term shall also include mobile homes, whether rent is paid for the mobile homes
and the land upon which the mobile home is located, or rent is paid for the land
alone. The term shall not include:	1.	Housing accommodations in any hospital;
state licensed community care facility; convent; monastery; extended medical
care facility; asylum; fraternity or sorority house; or housing accommodations
owned, operated, leased or managed primarily for occupancy by its students by an
institution of higher education, a  vocational school, a high school, or an
elementary school.	2.	Housing accommodations designed and operated exclusively
for senior citizens or retirees, and their spouses, or retirement
homes.	3.	Housing accommodations which are reserved exclusively for either
single or married students or for students with minor dependents who live with
them.	4.	Housing accommodations which a government unit, agency or authority
owns, operates, or manages, or which are specifically exempted from municipal
regulation by state or federal law or administrative regulation.	E.	Student: Any
person enrolled in an institution of higher education, vocational school, high
school, or elementary school.
