                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

EMPLOYMENT. (§ 45.82)

  EMPLOYMENT.	A.	Unlawful Practices.  It shall be an unlawful employment
practice for any employer, employment agency or labor organization or any agent
or employee thereof to do or attempt to do any of the following:	1.	Fail or
refuse to hire, or to discharge any person, or otherwise discriminate against
any person with respect to compensation, terms, conditions or privileges of
employment on the basis (in whole or in part) of the fact that such person has
the medical condition AIDS or any condition related thereto.	2.	Limit, segregate
or classify employees or applicants for employment in any manner which would
deprive or tend to deprive any person of employment opportunities, or adversely
affect his or her employment status on the basis (in whole or in part) of the
fact that such person has the medical condition AIDS or any condition related
thereto.	3.	Fail or refuse to refer for employment any person, or otherwise to
discriminate against any person on the basis (in whole or in part) of the fact
that such person has the medical condition AIDS or any condition related
thereto.	4.	Fail or refuse to include in its membership or to otherwise
discriminate against any person; or to limit, segregate or classify its
membership; or to classify or fail or refuse to refer for employment any person
in any way which would deprive or tend to deprive such person of employment
opportunities, or otherwise adversely affect her or his status as an employee or
as an applicant for employment on the basis (in whole or in part) of the fact
that such person has the medical condition AIDS or any condition related
thereto.	5.	Discriminate against any person in admission to, or employment in,
any program established to provide apprenticeship or other training or
retraining, including any on-the-job training program on the basis (in whole or
in part) of the fact that such person has the medical condition AIDS or any
condition related thereto.	B.	Bonafide Occupational Qualification not
Prohibited; Burden of Proof.	1.	Bona Fide Occupational Qualifications.  Nothing
contained in this Section shall be deemed to prohibit selection, rejection or
dismissal based upon a bona fide occupational qualification.	2.	Burden of
Proof.  Any action brought under this article, if a party asserts that an
otherwise unlawful discriminatory practice is justified as a bona fide
occupational qualification, that party shall have the burden of proving:  (1) 
that the discrimination is in fact a necessary result of a bona fide
occupational qualification; and  (2)  that there exists no less discriminatory
means of satisfying the occupational qualification.	C.	Exceptions.	1.	It shall
not be an unlawful discriminatory practice for an employer to observe the
conditions of a bona fide employee benefit system, provided such systems or
plans are not a subterfuge to evade the purposes of this article; provided
further that no such system shall provide an excuse for failure to hire any
person.
