                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEFINITIONS. (§ 45.81)

  DEFINITIONS.	The following words and phrases, whenever used in this article,
shall be construed as defined in this section:	A.	AIDS:  shall mean the disease
complex which occurs when an important part of the human immune system is
destroyed by the action of a virus known as HTLV-III or LAV. Signs and symptoms
of this disease complex are manifested in the afflicted person by a series of
virus or fungus-caused illnesses of a chronic nature.	B.	Condition related
thereto:  Shall mean any perception that a person is suffering from the medical
condition AIDS whether real or imaginary.	C.	Business Establishment:  shall
mean any entity, however organized, which furnishes goods or services to the
general public. An otherwise qualifying establishment which has membership
requirements is considered to furnish services to the general public if its
membership requirements:  (a) consist only of payment of fees;  (b) consist of
requirements under which a substantial portion of the residents of this City
could qualify.	D.	Employer:  Shall mean every person, including any public
service corporation and the legal representative of any deceased employer which
has any natural person in service.	E.	Housing Services:  Shall mean services
connected with the use or occupancy of a rental unit including but not limited
to, utilities (including light, heat, water and telephone), ordinary repairs or
replacement, and maintenance, including painting. This term shall also include
the provision of elevator service, laundry facilities and privileges, common
recreational facilities, janitor service, resident manager, refuse removal,
furnishings, food service, parking and any other benefits, privileges or
facilities.	F.	Rent:  Shall mean the consideration, including any bonus,
benefits or gratuity, demanded or received by a landlord for or in connection
with the use or occupancy of a rental unit, including but not limited to monies
demanded or paid for the following: meals where required by the landlord as a
condition of the tenancy; parking; furnishings; other housing services of any
kind; subletting; or security deposits.	G.	Rental Units:  Shall mean all
dwelling units, efficiency dwelling units, guest rooms, and suites in the City
of Los Angeles, as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code, rented or offered for
rent for living or dwelling purposes, the land and buildings appurtenant
thereto, and all housing services, privileges, furnishings and facilities
supplied in connection with the use or occupancy thereof, including garage and
parking facilities.	This term shall not include:	1.	Housing accommodations which
a government unit, agency or authority owns, operates, or manages, and which are
specifically exempted from municipal regulation by state or federal law or
administrative regulation.	H.	Person:  Shall mean any natural person, firm,
corporation, partnership or other organization, association or group of persons
however organized.
