                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

STATEMENT OF POLICY. (§ 45.80)

  STATEMENT OF POLICY.

	After public hearings and receipt of testimony, the City Council finds and
declares:

	That the medical condition described as Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome and
commonly known as AIDS is a deadly disease which has the potential to affect
every segment of our City’s population.

	That AIDS was first recognized in 1981 by the Federal Center for Disease
Control based on the study of a pattern of unusual illnesses among young, single
men reported by the medical center associated with UCLA within our City.

	That AIDS in the opinion of the scientific and medical community is caused by a
virus, known as HTLV-III or LAV, which attacks and cripples the body’s immune
system, thereby leaving the body vulnerable to opportunistic infections.

	That a person afflicted with AIDS suffers a variety of virus and/or
fungus-caused illnesses which debilitate the body resulting in a high mortality
rate within three years after diagnosis.

	That the spread of the virus has occurred through the exchange of bodily
fluids, i.e. blood, blood by-products, or semen, between individuals.

	That no evidence exists to indicate the spread of the virus by casual contact.

	That medical studies of family groups in which one or more persons have been
diagnosed with AIDS show no spread of the virus other than through sexual
intimacy or through the exchange of blood (mother to fetus).

	That the virus can thrive only in favorable conditions, and cannot exist for a
significant period of time outside the body, and can be protected against by the
application of regular practices of hygiene, such as the use of chlorine in
swimming pools or spas and the use of household bleach when washing garments or
cleaning contaminated surfaces.

	That the public health danger represented by the virus and its subsequent
manifestation as AIDS is caused by the lengthy incubation period during which
period an apparently healthy individual may spread the disease to other persons
through the exchange of blood, blood by-products, or semen.

	That AIDS while recognized as a national public health emergency has been
concentrated in urban areas with our city representing the third highest number
of cases reported within a local public health jurisdiction.

	That AIDS in the opinion of the scientific and medical community will continue
to increase at a high rate within our city for the foreseeable future.

	That AIDS by its nature has created a discrete and insular minority of our
citizens who are afflicted with a seriously disabling condition whose ultimate
outcome is fatal.

	That the persons afflicted with AIDS represent a segment of our population
particularly victimized due to the nature of the disease and to the present
climate of misinformation, ignorance and fear in the general population.

	That discrimination against victims of AIDS and AIDS related conditions exists
in the City of Los Angeles.

	That persons with AIDS or AIDS related conditions are faced with discrimination
in employment, housing, medical and dental services, business establishments,
city facilities, city services and other public accommodations;

	That such discrimination cuts across all racial, ethnic and economic lines;

	That such discrimination poses a substantial threat to the health, safety and
welfare of the community;

	That the existing state and federal restraints on such arbitrary discrimination
are inadequate to meet the particular problems of this City.
