                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

RENTAL HOUSING. (§ 45.83)

  RENTAL HOUSING.	A.	Unlawful Practices.  It shall be unlawful for any person
having a housing accommodation for rent or lease, or any authorized agent or
employee of such person to or attempt to do any of the following:	1.	Refuse to
rent or lease a rental unit, refuse to negotiate for the rental or lease of a
rental unit, evict from a rental unit, or otherwise deny to or withhold a rental
unit from any person on the basis (in whole or in part) of the fact that such
person has the medical condition AIDS or any condition related thereto.	2.	Rent
or lease a rental unit on less favorable terms, conditions or privileges, or
discriminate in the provision of housing services to any person on the basis (in
whole or in part) of the fact that such person has the medical condition AIDS or
any medical condition related thereto.	3.	Represent to any person that a rental
unit is not available for inspection, rental or lease when such rental unit is,
in fact, available on the basis (in whole or in part) of the fact that such
person has the medical condition AIDS or any condition related thereto.	4.	Make,
print, publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published any notice,
statement, sign, advertisement, application, or contract with regard to a rental
unit that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination with respect
to the fact that a person has the medical condition AIDS or any condition
related thereto.	B.	Exceptions.	1.	Owner-occupied.  Nothing in this article
shall be construed to apply to the rental or leasing of any housing unit in
which the owner or lessor or any member of his or her family occupies the same
living unit in common with the prospective tenant.	2.	Effect on Other Laws. 
Nothing in this article shall be deemed to permit any rental or occupancy of any
dwelling unit or commercial space otherwise prohibited by law.	3.	Nothing in
this article shall override any just cause for eviction set forth in Rent
Stabilization Ordinance. AIDS shall not constitute an reasonable health hazard
under 151.09 of the Rent Stabilization Ordinance.
