                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

FINDINGS AND PURPOSE. (§ 45.95.00)

  FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.

	After public hearings receipt of testimony, the City Council finds and
declares:

	That a significant barrier to the advancement of women and minorities in the
business and professional life of the City exists by virtue of the
discriminatory practices of certain clubs or organizations which are not
distinctly private and where business is frequently conducted.

	That while such clubs or organizations may avowedly be formed for social or
civic purposes, the extent to which many of the activities therein have had a
prejudicial impact on the business, professional and,employment opportunities of
women and minorities can not be ignored or minimized.

	That business activity most frequently occurs in clubs or organizations having
more than four hundred members which provide regular meal services which
facilitates conducting such business.

	That the dues and expenses of members at such clubs or organizations are often
paid by their employers because the employee’s activities at said clubs or
organizations serve to develop and enhance the employer’s business.

	That such clubs or organizations also rent their facilities for use as
conference rooms for business meetings attended by non-members.

	That the City of Los Angeles has a compelling interest in eradicating
discrimination based on sex, race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin,
sexual orientation, or disability in order to assure all of its citizens a fair
and equal opportunity to participate in the business and professional life of
the City. Conduct and practices which exclude persons from entry or
consideration for membership in or the full advantages and privileges of such
membership on these bases are discriminatory and unacceptable, are injurious to
the body politic and to the business community and the City of Los Angeles.
Accordingly, the City’s interest in eliminating such practices in clubs or
organizations covered by this article outweighs the interest of their members in
private association.
