                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

REQUIREMENTS FOR PUBLIC WORKS PERMITS TO RELOCATE OR REMOVE PROTECTED TREES. (§
46.02)

  REQUIREMENTS FOR PUBLIC WORKS PERMITS TO RELOCATE OR REMOVE PROTECTED TREES.
(Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 177,404, Eff. 4/23/06.)	No person shall
relocate or remove any protected tree, as that term is defined in Section 46.01,
where the protected tree is not regulated pursuant to Article 7 of Chapter I of
this Code, without first having applied for and obtained a permit from the Board
of Public Works or its designated officer or employee, except as otherwise
provided in this section.	An application for a permit shall indicate, in a
manner acceptable to the Board of Public Works, by number on a plot plan, the
location of each protected tree, and shall identify each protected tree proposed
to be retained, relocated or removed.  If any grading is proposed that may
affect the protected tree, a copy of the grading permit plan in compliance with
Division 70 of Article 1 of Chapter IX of this Code shall be submitted with the
application.	(a)	Exemptions.  The Board of Public Works shall exempt from and
not require issuance of a permit for the relocation or removal of a protected
tree where the Board is satisfied that:	1.	The proposed relocation or removal of
the protected tree has been approved by the Advisory Agency pursuant to Article
7 of Chapter I of this Code; or	2.	The land upon which the protected tree is
located has been the subject of a determination by the City Planning Commission,
the City Council, a Zoning Administrator or an Area Planning Commission, the
appeal period established by this Code with respect to the determination has
expired, the determination is still in effect, and pursuant to the determination
the protected tree’s removal would be permissible; or	3.	A building permit has
been issued for any property and is still in effect with respect to the property
under consideration and its implementation would necessitate the removal or
relocation.	(b)	Board Authority.  The Board of Public Works may grant a permit
for the relocation or removal of a protected tree, unless otherwise provided in
this section or unless the tree is officially designated as an Historical
Monument or as part of an Historic Preservation Overlay Zone, if the Board
determines that the removal of the protected tree will not result in an
undesirable, irreversible soil erosion through diversion or increased flow of
surface waters, which cannot be mitigated to the satisfaction of the City;
and	1.	It is necessary to remove the protected tree because its continued
existence at the location prevents the reasonable development of the subject
property; or	2.	The protected tree shows a substantial decline from a condition
of normal health and vigor, and restoration, through appropriate and
economically reasonable preservation procedures and practices, is not advisable;
or	3.	Because of an existing and irreversible adverse condition of the protected
tree, the tree is in danger of falling, notwithstanding the tree having been
designated an Historical Monument or as part of an Historic Preservation Overlay
Zone.	(c)	Additional Authority.  The Board of Public Works or its authorized
officer or employee may:	1.	Require as a condition of a grant of permit for the
relocation or removal of a protected tree, that the permittee replace the tree
within the same property boundaries by at least two trees of a protected variety
included within the definition set forth in Section 46.01 of this Code, in a
manner acceptable to the Board.  In size, each replacement tree shall be at
least a 15-gallon, or larger, specimen, measuring one inch or more in diameter
one foot above the base, and be not less than seven feet in height measured from
the base.  The size and number of replacement trees shall approximate the value
of the tree to be replaced.	2.	Permit protected trees of a lesser size or trees
of a different species to be planted as replacement trees, if replacement trees
of the size and species otherwise required pursuant to this Code are not
available.  In that event, a greater number of replacement trees may be
required.	3.	Permit a protected tree to be moved to another location on the
property, provided that the environmental conditions of the new location are
favorable to the survival of the tree and there is a reasonable probability that
the tree will survive.
