                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

APPLICATION PROCEDURE. (§ 46.92)

  APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 179,436, Eff. 1/28/08.)	(a)	Application for a Tobacco
Retailer’s Permit shall be submitted to the Office of Finance by any
proprietor of a business seeking the permit, with at least one proprietor
personally identifying himself or herself with valid government-issued
identification at the time the application is submitted.  An authorized agent
of a business or corporation may submit an application for a Tobacco
Retailer’s Permit if the application has been completed, signed and notarized
by at least one proprietor or corporate officer.  Each applicant shall be
responsible for reviewing the conditions of conducting retail tobacco sales
within the City of Los Angeles and shall agree to abide by these conditions by
signing the application under penalty of perjury.  All applications shall be
submitted on a form supplied by the City and shall contain the following
information:	(1)	The business name, address and telephone number of the location
for which the Tobacco Retailer’s Permit is sought;	(2)	The name, mailing
address and telephone number of the proprietor or person authorized to receive
communications and notices required by or authorized by this article.  If this
information is not supplied, each proprietor shall be understood to consent to
the provision of notice at the business address of the location for which the
Tobacco Retailer’s Permit is sought;	(3)	The type and identifying number of
the government-issued identification presented with the application;
and	(4)	Other information the City Attorney deems necessary for enforcement of
this ordinance.	(b)	A Tobacco Retailer’s Permit must be obtained prior to the
sale of any tobacco product or tobacco paraphernalia.  A new Tobacco
Retailer’s Permit must be obtained upon change of ownership or upon change of
form of ownership prior to the sale of any tobacco product, including but not
limited to a sole proprietor becoming a corporation.
