                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES (§ 46.99)

  ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES
	(Amended by Ord. No. 179,436, Eff. 1/28/08.)	(a)	Any tobacco retailer
determined by the City Attorney or his/her designee to have violated Section
46.98 shall be subject to the penalties of this section.  The City Attorney or
his/her designee shall notify the tobacco retailer that there has been an
initial determination of violation under the provisions of this ordinance, and
shall specify the violation and the penalty imposed, including the effective
date of the suspension, if any.  The notice shall further state that the
tobacco retailer may, within 15 calendar days of receipt of the notice, submit
to the City Attorney any written or documentary evidence to contest the initial
determination of violation.  After receiving and considering the evidence that
is provided, the City Attorney or his/her designee shall prepare a final written
decision with findings, and shall serve this final determination upon the
tobacco retailer.  Upon written request, the tobacco retailer shall have the
right to receive copies of any records upon which the final determination is
based.  This final determination shall be served within 30 calendar days of the
initial determination.	(b)	Administrative penalties shall be imposed as
follows:	(1)	for the first violation in any five-year period, the tobacco
retailer shall receive a letter of reprimand from the City Attorney;	(2)	for the
second violation in any five-year period, the Tobacco Retailer’s Permit shall
be suspended for 30 calendar days;	(3)	for a third violation in any five-year
period, the Tobacco Retailer’s Permit shall be suspended for 90 calendar
days;	(4)	for a fourth or subsequent violation in any five-year period, the
Tobacco Retailer’s Permit shall be suspended for 12
months.	(c)	Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, prior
violations at a location shall continue to be counted against a location and
permit suspension periods shall continue to apply to a location unless:	(1)	the
location has been fully transferred to a new proprietor or proprietors;
and	(2)	the new proprietor(s) provide the City Attorney with clear and
convincing evidence that the new proprietor(s) have acquired or is acquiring the
location in an arm’s length transaction.
