                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

TENANT RELOCATION ASSISTANCE WHERE APARTMENTS ARE TO BE CONVERTED. (§ 47.06)

  TENANT RELOCATION ASSISTANCE WHERE APARTMENTS ARE TO BE CONVERTED.
	(Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 153,592, Eff. 5/11/80.)	A.	Statement of
Purposes.  At the present time, there is a critically short supply of rental
housing in the City of Los Angeles. Many rental housing units have been removed
from the rental market through conversion to condominiums, stock cooperatives,
community apartment projects, hotels and commercial uses. Tenants who are
evicted due to conversion are experiencing serious difficulties in locating
comparable replacement rental housing. These difficulties are particularly acute
for elderly tenants and those with physical limitations, particularly the
handicapped and disabled. In addition, families with minor dependent children
face greater relocation difficulties than families without such children.	The
City’s condominium conversion ordinance addresses these grave public health
and welfare problems in the context of new conversions of existing rental units
to various forms of divided ownership. However, that ordinance does not provide
assistance to tenants displaced due to the conversion of their rental units to
condominiums, stock cooperatives or community apartment projects exempted from
the new conversion ordinance, or to hotels. Additionally, in some instances
tenants displaced due to conversions already approved by the City (under the
previous conversion ordinance) are not receiving relocation assistance, yet
often face similar relocation difficulties.	Since the conversion of rental units
to condominiums, stock cooperatives, community apartment projects, hotels and
commercial uses is a substantial cause of the rental housing shortage, the City
Council finds and declares that it would be just and proper for the subdividers
who may enjoy the benefits of such conversions to assist tenants who are
displaced by the conversion activity and who otherwise would be forced to bear
the burdens of displacement without any assistance. The Council also finds that
the necessity for relocation assistance is significantly less for the tenants of
luxury apartment units.	B.	Definitions.  For purposes of this section, the
definitions in Section 12.03 of this Code and the following definitions shall
apply:	Landlord:  An owner, lessor, or sublessor, (including any person, firm,
corporation, partnership, or other entity) who receives or is entitled to
receive rent for the use of any rental unit, or the agent, representative or
successor of any of the foregoing.	Notice of Termination:  The notice of
intention to terminate tenancy, whether given by a landlord or by a tenant,
provided for by California Civil Code Section 1946. (Amended by Ord. No.
155,397, Eff. 8/2/81.)	Qualified Tenant:  Any tenant who satisfies any of the
following criteria on the date said tenant gives or receives a Notice of
Termination:  has attained age 62; is handicapped as defined in Section 50072
of the California Health and Safety Code; is disabled as defined Title 42 United
States Code 423; or is a person residing with and on whom is legally dependent
(as determined for federal income tax purposes) one or more minor children.
(Amended by Ord. No. 162,743, Eff. 9/24/87.)	Relocation Assistance Service
Provider:  A company that specializes in relocation assistance and has a
contract with the City for the delivery of those services.  (Added by Ord. No.
178,632, Eff. 5/26/07.)	Rental Unit:  Each dwelling unit, efficiency dwelling
unit, guest room, and suite in the City of Los Angeles, as defined in Section
12.03 of this Code, together with the land and buildings appurtenant thereto,
and all housing services, privileges, furnishings and facilities supplied in
connection with the use or occupancy thereof, including garage and parking
facilities. The term shall not include:	1.	A one-family dwelling, except where
three or more dwelling units are located on the same lot;	2.	Housing
accommodations in hotels, motels, inns, tourist homes and boarding and rooming
houses, provided that at such time as an accommodation has been occupied by one
or more of the same tenants for sixty 60 days or more such accommodation shall
become a rental unit subject to the provisions of this section.	3.	Housing
accommodations in any hospital, convent, monastery, extended medical care
facility, asylum, nonprofit home for the aged, fraternity or sorority house, or
housing accommodations owned, operated or managed by an institution of higher
education, a high school or an elementary school for occupancy by its
students.	4.	Housing accommodations which a government unit, agency or authority
owns, operates, or manages, or which are specifically exempted from municipal
rent regulation by state or federal law or administrative regulation.	5.	Luxury
housing accommodations wherein as of May 31,1978 the rent charged per month was
at least $302 for a unit with no bedrooms, $420 for a unit with one bedroom;
$588 for a unit with two bedrooms; $756 for a unit with three bedrooms; and $823
for a unit with four bedrooms or more.	6.	Mobile home.	Tenant:  A tenant,
subtenant, lessee, sublessee, or any other person entitled to use or occupancy
of a rental unit. Tenant does not include any person who:	(1)  is residing in a
conversion project and intends to purchase a unit in such project after
conversion has been accomplished, or who intends to reside with such a
purchaser, or	(2)	received actual written notice, prior to entering into a
written or oral agreement to become a tenant, that an application to convert the
building to a condominium, stock cooperative or community apartment project was
on file with the City or had already been approved, whichever the case may
be.	C.	Relocation Assistance Required.  (Amended by Ord. No. 178,632, Eff.
5/26/07.)  In connection with the conversion of a building into a condominium,
community apartment or stock cooperative, as those terms are defined in the
California Government Code and Business and Professions Code, or into a hotel or
apartment hotel or to a use permitted in any commercial zone, the landlord shall
pay the City a fee for the purpose of providing relocation assistance by the
City’s Relocation Assistance Service Provider to each tenant in accordance
with Subsection D. of this section.  The fee shall be $640 for each unit
occupied by a qualified tenant and $400 for each unit occupied by other tenants,
and an additional $55 per unit administrative fee to pay for the administrative
costs associated with this service.  The fees, set forth above, may be
increased in an amount based on the Consumer Price Index – All Urban Consumers
averaged for the first 12-month period ending September 30, of each year, as
determined and published by the Housing Department on or before May 30, of each
year, pursuant to Section 151.07 A.6. of this Code.	This subsection shall not
apply where a subdivision map application for condominiums, stock cooperative or
community apartment purposes was filed for approval with the City prior to the
issuance of the original certificate of occupancy for the building.  A
landlord’s obligation to comply with Subsection D. of this section does not
exist prior to the time the landlord gives the notice of intention to convert
required by Government Code Section 66427.1.	D.	Relocation Assistance. 
Relocation assistance, where required by the preceding subsection, shall be
provided in accordance with the following provisions.	1.	Landlord’s
Responsibility.	a.	(Amended by Ord. No. 178,632, Eff. 5/26/07.)  The landlord
shall pay a fee to the City so that a Relocation Assistance Service Provider
will:	(1)	Make available to each tenant, at no cost, a reasonably complete and
current list of vacant and available rental units which are comparable as to
size and amenities to the unit occupied by the tenant, and	(2)	Make a reasonable
and good faith effort to assure that tenants without cars are driven, at no
cost, and tenants with cars are assisted, in order to inspect replacement rental
units, and	(3)	Hire an ambulance or similar vehicle, at no cost to the tenant,
and otherwise take reasonable steps to assist any disabled or handicapped tenant
with relocation-related activities.	b.	(Amended by Ord. No. 178,632, Eff.
5/26/07.)  In order to assist the tenants in meeting costs of relocation,
higher rents for replacement housing, and any related expenses, pay a relocation
fee in the following amounts.  If more than one fee applies to a rental unit,
pay the highest of the applicable fees:	(1)	$14,850 to qualified tenants and a
$6,810 fee to all other tenants who have lived in their rental unit for fewer
than three years, or	(2)	$17,080 to qualified tenants and a $9,040 fee to all
other tenants who have lived in their rental unit for three years or longer,
or	(3)	$18,300 to qualified tenants and $9,650 to all other tenants whose
household income is 80 percent or below Area Median Income, as adjusted for
household size, as defined by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development regardless of length of tenancy.  Tenants who claim eligibility
pursuant to this Subparagraph shall file a statement with the Housing Department
verifying their income on a form prescribed by the Housing Department. 
Requests for a hearing to appeal a decision regarding a tenant’s relocation
assistance, including disputes about eligibility for higher relocation
assistance based on a tenant’s income, age, length of tenancy, family status
and disability status, must be filed in writing on the form prescribed by the
Housing Department.  The Housing Department shall charge the appellant a fee of
$193 per rental unit to cover the administrative costs of the hearing. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 181,744, Eff. 7/15/11.)	(4)	The above listed relocation
assistance fees will sunset on July 1, 2008, unless the City Council acts by
resolution to extend these provisions.  If these provisions are not extended,
the following provision will become effective on July 1, 2008:	$17,080 to
qualified tenants and a $9,040 fee to all other tenants.	For the year beginning
July 1, 2008, and all subsequent years, the fee amounts shall be adjusted on an
annual basis pursuant to the formula set forth in Section 151.06 D. of this
Code.  The adjusted amount shall be rounded to the nearest $50
increment.	c.	(Added by Ord. No. 178,632, Eff. 5/26/07.)  The relocation fee
provided for in Paragraph b. above, shall be made as follows:	(1)	The entire fee
shall be paid to a tenant who is the only tenant in a rental unit;	(2)	If a
rental unit is occupied by two or more tenants, then each tenant of the unit
shall be paid an equal, pro-rata share of the fee.	In no event shall the
landlord be liable to pay more than the maximum relocation amounts set forth
above to all tenants residing in a rental unit.  If a tenant is entitled to
monetary relocation benefits pursuant to City administrative agency action or
any provision of local, state or federal law, then those benefits shall operate
as a credit against any fee required to be paid to the tenant under this
section.	2.	When Assistance Shall Be Provided.  (Amended by Ord. No. 178,632,
Eff. 5/26/07.)	a.	Payment for Relocation Assistance Service Provider.  The
landlord shall perform the acts described in Paragraph a. of Subdivision 1.
above on or before the service of the 180-day notice of intention to
convert.	b.	Monetary Assistance.  The landlord shall perform the acts described
in Paragraph b. of Subdivision 1. above within 15 days of service of the Notice
of Termination or within 15 days of receiving notice from the tenant of his/her
intention to terminate the tenancy subsequent to approval of a tentative parcel
or tract map and prior to receiving a Notice of Termination of Tenancy.	E.	Civil
Remedies.  In an action by a landlord to recover possession of a rental unit, a
tenant may raise as an affirmative defense the failure of the landlord to comply
with Subsection D of this section. In addition, any landlord who fails to
provide monetary relocation assistance to a tenant as required by this section
shall be liable in a civil action to the tenant to whom such assistance is due
for damages in the amount the landlord has failed to pay, together with
reasonable attorney fees and costs as determined by the court.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 155,397, Eff. 8/2/81.)	F.	(Deleted by Ord. No. 178,632, Eff. 5/26/07.)
