                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

TENANT RELOCATION ASSISTANCE WHERE MOBILEHOME PARKS ARE CHANGED TO A DIFFERENT
USE. (§ 47.08)

  TENANT RELOCATION ASSISTANCE WHERE MOBILEHOME PARKS ARE CHANGED TO A
DIFFERENT USE.
	(Added by Ord. No. 153,568, Eff. 5/5/80.)	A.	Statement of Purposes.  The
provisions of this section are intended to provide relocation assistance to
tenants of mobilehome parks facing eviction due to the owner’s intent to
convert the mobilehome park to another use.	B.	Definitions.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 162,743, Eff. 9/24/87.)  For the purposes of this section, the definitions
in Section 12.03 of this Code, in Article 1 of the California Mobilehome
Residency Law (California Civil Code, Section 798, et seq.), and the following
definitions shall apply:	Notice to Quit:  In the case of a tenant, the Notice
required by Section 798.55(b) of the California Civil Code. In the case of
non-tenant resident, the notice required by an applicable provision of
law.	Qualified Resident:  Any resident, as that term is used in California
Civil Code Section 798.11, who satisfies any of the following criteria on the
date said resident receives a Notice to Quit as defined above:  has attained
age 62; is handicapped as defined in Section 50072 of the California Health and
Safety Code; is disabled as defined in Title 42 United States Code 423; or is a
person residing with and on whom is legally dependent (as determined for federal
income tax purposes) one or more minor children.	Relocation Assistance Service
Provider:  A company that specializes in relocation assistance and has a
contract with the City for the delivery of those services.  (Added by Ord. No.
180,071, Eff. 8/30/08.)	Rental Unit:  All dwelling units, efficiency dwelling
units, guest rooms, and suites, as defined in Section 12.03 of this Code; all
housing accommodations as defined in Government Code Section 12927; duplexes and
condominiums in the City of Los Angeles, rented or offered for rent for living
or dwelling purposes; the land and buildings appurtenant to these; and all
housing services, privileges, furnishings and facilities supplied in connection
with their use or occupancy, including garage and parking facilities.  This
term shall also include mobilehomes, whether rent is paid for the mobilehome and
the land upon which the mobilehome is located, or rent is paid for the land
alone.  Further it shall include recreational vehicles, as defined in
California Civil Code Section 799.24 if located in a mobilehome park or
recreational vehicle park, whether rent is paid for the recreational vehicle and
the land upon which it is located, or rent is paid for the land alone.  (Added
by Ord. No. 180,071, Eff. 8/30/08.)	Tenant:  A homeowner, as defined in
California Civil Code Section 798.9.	Qualified Tenant:  Any tenant who
satisfies any of the following criteria on the date said tenant receives a
Notice to Quit as defined above: has attained age 62; is handicapped as defined
in Section 50072 of the California Health and Safely Code; is disabled as
defined in Title 42 United States Code 423; or is a person residing with and on
whom is legally dependent (as determined for federal income tax purposes) one or
more minor children.	C.	Relocation Assistance Required.  (Amended by Ord. No.
180,071, Eff. 8/30/08.)	1.	The management of a mobilehome park shall provide
relocation assistance in connection with the change of use, as defined in Civil
Code Section 798.10, of the mobilehome park, or any portion of the
park.	2.	Exception.  This section shall not apply where:  (1) the change of
use results from the City’s refusal to extend a conditional use permit, or
similar permit, upon good faith request of the management for the extension; (2)
the California Department of Housing suspends or revokes a permit pursuant to
Health and Safety Code Section 18510; or (3) the tenant or resident, as the case
may be, received actual written notice from management, prior to entering into
an oral or written agreement to become a resident or tenant, that an application
to convert the mobilehome park to another use was on file with the City or had
already been approved, whichever the case may be.	3.	Management shall pay the
City a fee for the purpose of providing relocation assistance by the City’s
Relocation Assistance Service Provider to each tenant in accordance with
Subsection D. of this section.  The fee shall be $640 for each unit occupied by
a qualified tenant and $400 for each unit occupied by other tenants, and an
additional $55 per unit administrative fee to pay for the administrative costs
associated with this service.  The fees, set forth above, may be increased in
an amount based on the Consumer Price Index – All Urban Consumers averaged for
the first 12-month period ending September 30, of each year, as determined and
published by the Housing Department on or before May 30, of each year, pursuant
to Section 151.07 A.6. of this Code.	D.	Manner of Providing Relocation
Assistance.  Relocation assistance, where required by the preceding subsection,
shall be provided in accordance with the following provisions.	1.	Management’s
Responsibility.  (Amended by Ord. No. 180,071, Eff. 8/30/08.)	a.	Management
shall pay a fee to the City so that a Relocation Assistance Service Provider
will:	(1)	Make available to each tenant, at no cost, a reasonably complete and
current list of vacant and available rental units, which are comparable as to
size and amenities to the unit occupied by the tenant, and	(2)	Make a reasonable
and good faith effort to assure that tenants without cars are driven, at no
cost, and tenants with cars are assisted, in order to inspect replacement rental
units, and	(3)	Hire an ambulance or similar vehicle, at no cost to the tenant,
and otherwise take reasonable steps to assist any disabled or handicapped tenant
with relocation-related activities.	b.	In order to assist the tenants in meeting
costs of relocation, higher rents for replacement housing, and any related
expenses, pay a relocation fee in the following amounts.  If more than one fee
applies to a rental unit, pay the highest of the applicable fees:	(1)	$15,300 to
qualified tenants and a $7,000 fee to all other tenants who have lived in their
rental unit for fewer than three years; or	(2)	$17,600 to qualified tenants and
a $9,300 fee to all other tenants who have lived in their rental unit for three
years or longer; or	(3)	$17,600 to qualified tenants and $9,300 to all other
tenants whose household income is 80 percent or below Area Median Income (AMI),
as adjusted for household size, as defined by the U.S. Department of Housing and
Urban Development regardless of length of tenancy.  Tenants who claim
eligibility pursuant to this subparagraph shall file a statement with the
Housing Department verifying their income on a form prescribed by the Housing
Department.  The Housing Department shall charge a fee of $186 per rental unit
to resolve any disputes regarding tenant income eligibility.	For the year
beginning July 1, 2009, and all subsequent years, the fee amounts shall be
adjusted on an annual basis pursuant to the formula set forth in Section 151.06
D. of this Code.  The adjusted amount shall be rounded to the nearest $50
increment.	c.	The relocation fee provided for in Paragraph b. above, shall be
made as follows:	(1)	The entire fee shall be paid to a tenant who is the only
tenant in a rental unit; and	(2)	If a rental unit is occupied by two or more
tenants, then each tenant of the unit shall be paid an equal, pro-rata share of
the fee.	In no event shall the landlord be liable to pay more than the maximum
relocation amounts set forth above to all tenants residing in a rental unit. 
If a tenant is entitled to monetary relocation benefits pursuant to City
administrative agency action or any provision of local, state or federal law,
then those benefits shall operate as a credit against any fee required to be
paid to the tenant under this section.	2.	When Assistance Shall Be Provided. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 180,071, Eff. 8/30/08.)	a.	Payment for Relocation
Assistance Service Provider.  Management shall perform the acts described in
Paragraph a. of Subdivision 1. above on or before the service of the Notice to
Quit.	b.	Monetary Assistance.  Management shall perform the acts described in
Paragraph b. of Subdivision 1. above within 15 days of service of the Notice to
Quit.	E.	Affirmative Defense.  In an action by management to recover possession
of a space occupied by a mobilehome or to recover possession of a mobilehome, as
the case may be, the defendant may raise as an affirmative defense the failure
of management to provide relocation assistance as required by this
section.	F.	(Repealed by Ord. No. 180,071, Eff. 8/30/08.)	G.	Notification to
City. (Added by Ord. No. 154,073, Eff. 7/28/80.)	1.	The management shall serve,
by personal service or by United States Mail, written notice on the
Superintendent of Building of the proposed termination of mobilehome park use,
accompanied by such information and in a form designated for such purpose by the
Superintendent. Upon publication of this subsection in the newspaper, the
Superintendent shall forthwith notify the management of all mobilehome parks
within the City limits of the requirements of this subsection.	a.	Where the
Notice to Quit is served on or after the effective date of this subsection, the
notice to the Superintendent shall be served on or before the 30th day prior to
the expiration of one period stated in the Notice to Quit.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 157,153*, Eff. 10/15/82.)	b.	Where the Notice to Quit is served prior to the
effective date of this subsection, the notice to the Superintendent shall be
served on or before the 10th day prior to the expiration of the period stated in
the Notice to Quit.	2.	The notice referred to in Subdivision 1 above shall be
accompanied by a statement that the management has provided all relocation
assistance required by law, accompanied with proof of such assistance in the
form of notarized signed acknowledgments from the recipients thereof or a
notarized sign waiver of assistance.  (Amended by Ord. No. 157,153*, Eff.
10/15/82.)	3.	If management fails to substantially comply with this Subsection
G, as determined by the Superintendent of Building, the Superintendent shall
forthwith notify the Director of Planning and all other appropriate City
departments and officials of such noncompliance. These departments and officials
shall not issue, grant or approve any application or request for any permit,
license or other entitlement of use (including but not limited to a building
permit, conditional use permit, zone change, variance, certificate of occupancy,
tract or parcel map) for any change of use.  (Amended by Ord. No. 157,153, Eff.
10/15/82.)	4.	This Subsection G shall apply only to those mobilehome parks at
which resides a tenant or a resident who is subject to a Notice to Quit which
specifies a period which terminates on or after July 1, 1980. The requirement of
notarized signed acknowledgments set forth in Subdivision 2 above shall not
apply as to any recipient of relocation assistance who vacated the mobilehome
park prior to July 27, 1980.  (Amended by Ord. No. 162,743, Eff. 9/24/87.)	*
The amendments to Section 47.08 of this Code set forth in this ordinance shall
apply to any action to recover possession of a rental unit which has not become
final as of the effective date of this ordinance.
