                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

TENANT RELOCATION ASSISTANCE WHERE APARTMENTS ARE TO BE DEMOLISHED. (§ 47.07)

  TENANT RELOCATION ASSISTANCE WHERE APARTMENTS ARE TO BE DEMOLISHED.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 153,591, Eff. 5/11/80.)	A.	Statement of Purpose.  The
provisions of this section are intended to provide relocation assistance to
tenants facing eviction due to demolition or removal of their building to
another site. Such assistance is required for the reasons stated in Section
47.06.	B.	Definitions.  For purposes of this section, the definitions in
Section 12.03 of this Code and the following definitions shall
apply:	Landlord:  An owner, lessor, or sublessor, (including any person, firm,
corporation, partnership, or other entity) who receives or is entitled to
receive rent for the use of any rental unit, or the agent, representative or
successor of any of the foregoing.	Notice of Termination:  The notice of
intention to terminate tenancy, whether given by a landlord or by a tenant,
provided for by California Civil Code Section 1946. (Amended by Ord. No.
155,397, Eff. 8/2/81.)	Qualified Tenant:  Any tenant who satisfies any of the
following criteria on the date said tenant gives or receives a Notice of
Termination:  has attained age 62; is handicapped as defined in Section 50072
of the California Health and Safely Code; is disabled as defined in Title 42
United States Code  423; or is a person residing with and on whom is legally
dependent (as determined for federal income tax purposes) one or more minor
children. (Amended by Ord. No. 162,743, Eff. 9/24/87.)	Relocation Assistance
Service Provider:  A company that specializes in relocation assistance and has
a contract with the City for the delivery of such services.  (Added by Ord. No.
178,632, Eff. 5/26/07.)	Rental Unit:  Each dwelling unit, efficiency dwelling
unit, guest room, and suite in the City of Los Angeles, as defined in Section
12.03 of this Code, together with the land and buildings appurtenant thereto,
and all housing services, privileges, furnishings and facilities supplied in
connection with the use or occupancy thereof, including garage and parking
facilities. The term shall not include:	1.	A one-family dwelling, except where
three or more dwelling units are located on the same lot.	2.	A two family
dwelling, provided that one dwelling unit therein is occupied by a record owner
of the property.	3.	An apartment house or apartment hotel, provided that such
house or hotel contains at most three dwelling units and one such dwelling unit
is occupied by a record owner of the property.	4.	Housing accommodations in
hotels, motels, inns, tourist homes and boarding and rooming houses, provided
that at such time as an accommodation has been occupied by one or more of the
same tenants for sixty 60 days or more such accommodation shall become a rental
unit subject to the provisions of this section.	5.	Housing accommodations in any
hospital, convent, monastery, extended medical care facility, asylum, nonprofit
home for the aged, fraternity or sorority house, or housing accommodations
owned, operated or managed by an institution of higher education, a high school
or an elementary school for occupancy by its students.	6.	Housing accommodations
which a government unit, agency or authority owns, operates, or manages, or
which are specifically exempted from municipal rent regulation by state or
federal law or administrative regulation.	7.	Luxury housing accommodations
wherein as of May 31, 1978 the rent charged per month was at least $302 for a
unit with no bedrooms, $420 for a unit with one bedroom; $588 for a unit with
two bedrooms; $756 for a unit with three bedrooms; and $823 for a unit with four
bedrooms or more.	8.	Mobile home.	Tenant:  A tenant, subtenant, lessee,
sublessee, or any other person entitled to use or occupancy of a rental unit.
Tenant does not include any person who received actual written notice, prior to
entering into a written or oral tenancy agreement, that an application to
subdivide the property for condominium, stock cooperative or community apartment
purposes was on file with the city or had already been approved, whichever the
case may be, and that the existing building would be demolished or relocated in
connection with the proposed new subdivision.	C.	Relocation Assistance
Required.  The landlord shall pay the City a fee for the purpose of providing
relocation assistance by the City’s Relocation Assistance Service Provider to
each tenant in accordance with Subsection D. of this section in connection with
the demolition of a building or its relocation to another site for either of the
following purposes:  (1) to construct a new condominium, community apartment or
stock cooperative, as those terms are defined in the California Government Code
and Business and Professions Code; or (2) to use the property for any commercial
purpose.  Where a landlord is required, pursuant to a condition of approval of
a subdivision map, to give a tenant a notice of intention to demolish, the
landlord’s obligation to comply with this section does not exist prior to the
giving of that notice.  The fee shall be $640 for each unit occupied by a
qualified tenant and $400 for each unit occupied by other tenants, and an
additional $55 per unit to pay for the administrative costs associated with this
service.  The fees, set forth above, may be increased in an amount based on the
Consumer Price Index – All Urban Consumers averaged for the first 12
month-period ending September 30, of each year, as determined and published by
the Housing Department on or before May 30, of each year, pursuant to Section
151.07 A.6. of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 178,632, Eff.
5/26/07.)	D.	Relocation Assistance.  Relocation assistance, where required by
the preceding subsection, shall be provided in accordance with the following
provisions.	1.	Landlord’s Responsibility.	a.	(Amended by Ord. No. 178,632,
Eff. 5/26/07.)  The landlord shall pay a fee to the City so that a Relocation
Assistance Service Provider will:	(1)	Make available to each tenant, at no cost,
a reasonably complete and current list of vacant and available rental which are
comparable as to size and amenities to the unit occupied by the tenant,
and	(2)	Make a reasonable and good faith effort to assure that tenants without
cars are driven, at no cost, and tenants with cars are assisted, in order to
inspect replacement rental units, and	(3)	Hire an ambulance or similar vehicle,
at no cost to the tenant, and otherwise take reasonable steps to assist any
disabled or handicapped tenant with relocation-related activities.	b.	(Amended
by Ord. No. 178,632, Eff. 5/26/07.)  In order to assist the tenants in meeting
costs of relocation, higher rents for replacement housing, and any related
expenses, pay a relocation fee in the following amounts.  If more than one fee
applies to a rental unit, pay the highest of the applicable fees:	(1)	$14,850 to
qualified tenants and a $6,810 fee to all other tenants who have lived in their
rental unit for fewer than three years, or	(2)	$17,080 to qualified tenants and
a $9,040 fee to all other tenants who have lived in their rental unit for three
years or longer, or	(3)	$18,300 to qualified tenants and $9,650 to all other
tenants whose household income is 80 percent or below Area Median Income, as
adjusted for household size, as defined by the U.S. Department of Housing and
Urban Development regardless of length of tenancy.  Tenants who claim
eligibility pursuant to this Subparagraph shall file a statement with the
Housing Department verifying their income on a form prescribed by the Housing
Department.  Requests for a hearing to appeal a decision regarding a tenant’s
relocation assistance, including disputes about eligibility for higher
relocation assistance based on a tenant’s income, age, length of tenancy,
family status and/or disability status, must be filed in writing on the form
prescribed by the Housing Department.  The Housing Department shall charge the
appellant a fee of $193 per rental unit to cover the administrative costs of the
hearing.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,744, Eff. 7/15/11.)	(4)	The above listed
relocation assistance fees will sunset on July 1, 2008, unless the City Council
acts by resolution to extend these provisions.  If these provisions are not
extended, the following provision will become effective on July 1, 2008:	$17,080
to qualified tenants and a $9,040 fee to all other tenants.	For the year
beginning July 1, 2008, and all subsequent years, the fee amounts shall be
adjusted on an annual basis pursuant to the formula set forth in Section 151.06
D. of this Code.  The adjusted amount shall be rounded to the nearest $50
increment.	c.	(Added by Ord. No. 178,632, Eff. 5/26/07.)  The relocation fee
provided for in Paragraph b. above, shall be made as follows:	(1)	The entire fee
shall be paid to a tenant who is the only tenant in a rental unit;	(2)	If a
rental unit is occupied by two or more tenants, then each tenant of the unit
shall be paid an equal, pro-rata share of the fee;	In no event shall the
landlord be liable to pay more than the maximum relocation amounts set forth
above to all tenants residing in a rental unit.  If a tenant is entitled to
monetary relocation benefits pursuant to City administrative agency action or
any provision of local, state or federal law, then those benefits shall operate
as a credit against any fee required to be paid to the tenant under this
section.	2.	When Assistance Shall Be Provided.  (Amended by Ord. No. 178,632,
Eff. 5/26/07.)	a.	Payment for Relocation Assistance Service Provider.  The
landlord shall perform the acts described in Paragraph a. of Subdivision 1.
above on or before the service of either the notice described in California
Government Code Section 7060.2 (b), or the Notice of Termination, whichever
occurs first.	b.	Monetary Assistance.  The landlord shall provide the
assistance described in Paragraph b. of Subdivision 1. above within 15 days of
service of the Notice of Termination.	E.	Monitoring Program.  A demolition
permit shall not be issued unless the Housing Department provides a written
clearance to the Department of Building and Safety stating that the landlord has
complied with the relocation assistance requirements of this section.  The
landlord shall provide proof of compliance with the relocation assistance
requirements of this section to the Housing Department on a form provided by the
Housing Department.  The form shall be accompanied by a fee of $45 per unit. 
(Added by Ord. No. 178,632, Eff. 5/26/07.)	F.	Civil Remedies.  In an action by
a landlord to recover possession of a rental unit, a tenant may raise as an
affirmative defense the failure of the landlord to comply with Subsection D of
this section. In addition, any landlord who fails to provide monetary relocation
assistance to a tenant as required by this section shall be liable in a civil
action to the tenant to whom such assistance is due for damages in the amount
the landlord has failed to pay, together with reasonable attorney’s fees and
costs as determined by the court. (Amended by Ord. No. 155,397, Eff. 8/2/81;
Relettered by Ord. No. 178,632, Eff. 5/26/07.)	G.	Applicability.  (Relettered
and Amended by Ord. No. 178,632, Eff. 5/26/07.)  This section shall not apply
in any of the following circumstances:	1.	The building is constructed of
unreinforced masonry construction and was built pursuant to a building permit
issued prior to October 1, 1933.	2.	The building is to be demolished pursuant to
a demolition order issued by the Department of Building and Safety under the
authority set forth in Division 89 of Chapter IX of this Code.	3.	The building
is to be demolished or relocated pursuant to a plan to construct on that
property housing for low to moderate income households, which housing is to be
developed, constructed, or acquired with federal, state or local government
financial assistance.
