                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

MOBILEHOME PARK CLOSURE IMPACT REPORT. (§ 47.09)

  MOBILEHOME PARK CLOSURE IMPACT REPORT.
	(Added by Ord. No. 165,229, Eff. 11/13/89.)	A.	Statement of Purpose.  The
purpose of this section is to require persons who propose to convert, close or
cease the use of a mobilehome park to address the impact on the residents to be
displaced, and to take steps to mitigate the adverse impacts on the
residents.	B.	Definitions.  For purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply:	1.	Management.  The owner of a mobilehome park or an
agent or representative authorized to act on the owner’s behalf in connection
with matters relating to a tenancy in the park, including any person who
proposes to convert, close or cease the use of a park, or the successor in
interest of such person.	2.	Mobilehome.  A structure designed for human
habitation and for being moved on a street or highway under permit pursuant to
Section 35790 of the Vehicle Code. Mobilehome includes a manufactured home, as
defined in Section 18007 of the Health and Safety Code, and a mobilehome, as
defined in Section 18008 of the Health and Safety Code. Mobilehome includes a
recreational vehicle, as defined in Section 799.24 of the Civil Code and Section
18010 of the Health and Safety Code, if located in a mobilehome park and
continuously occupied by a resident, for nine or more months. Mobilehome does
not include a commercial coach as defined in Section 18001.8 of the Health and
Safety Code.	3.	Mobilehome Park.  An area of land where two or more mobilehome
sites are rented, or held out for rent, to accommodate mobilehomes used for
human habitation.	4.	Resident.  A homeowner or other person who lawfully
occupies a mobilehome.	C.	General Requirements.	1.	Prior to the conversion of a
mobilehome park to another use or closure of a mobilehome park or cessation of
use of the land as a mobilehome park, management shall file with the Advisory
Agency of the City of Los Angeles, a report on the impact of the conversion,
closure, or cessation of use (hereinafter “closure”) upon the residents of
the mobilehome park who will be displaced.	EXCEPTION:	This section of the Los
Angeles Municipal Code shall not apply to a conversion of a mobilehome park
pursuant to the Subdivision Map Act (Division 2 [commencing with Section 66410]
of Title 7 of the California Government Code).	2.	No person shall cause or
permit the closure of a mobilehome park until the impact report has been
approved by the Advisory Agency, or the City Council upon request for
hearing.	D.	Procedures.	1.	Time for Filing Impact Report.	(a)	(Amended by Ord.
No. 173,492, Eff. 10/10/00.)  If the proposed closure of the park requires a
discretionary local governmental permit or approval for which a hearing is
required by law, including but not limited to a change of zone, height district
change, exception from a specific plan, conditional use, variance, or coastal
development permit, then the impact report shall not be filed until the
discretionary approval has been obtained.	The impact report shall be filed with
the Advisory Agency and served on each resident of the mobilehome park
concurrently with service of the six months’ notice described in Section
798.56(f)(2) of the California Civil Code.	(b)	If the proposed closure of the
mobilehome park does not require any of the discretionary approvals described in
Paragraph (a) above, then the impact report shall be filed with the Advisory
Agency and served on each resident of the mobilehome park concurrently with
service of the twelve months’ notice described in Section 798.56(f)(2) of the
California Civil Code.	EXCEPTION:	If either the six months’ notice or the
twelve months’ notice has been served on the residents of the mobilehome park
prior to the effective date of this section, then, within ninety (90) days of
the effective date of this section, the impact report shall be served on all
current residents and on all residents who have left the mobilehome park since
those notices were given, and filed with the Advisory Agency.	(c)	Proof of
service of the impact report on the residents of the mobilehome park must be
provided to the Advisory Agency at the time of filing the impact
report.	2.	Impact Report Contents.  The impact report shall address the
availability of adequate replacement housing in other mobilehome parks and
relocation costs for each resident of the mobilehome park. It shall specify the
steps to be taken by management to mitigate any adverse impact of the proposed
closure on the residents who will be displaced.	The impact report shall provide
that any dispute regarding the rights of management or a resident under the
impact report shall be heard and resolved by the Advisory Agency, under such
rules as it shall adopt, when application for such review is made by management
or any resident.	In addition, the impact report shall contain such information
as the Advisory Agency shall deem necessary, as set forth in regulations
promulgated by the Advisory Agency pursuant to this section.	3.	Hearing and
Notice. Upon the receipt of an impact report, the Advisory Agency shall examine
the same and advise management whether it is complete, within fifteen (15) days
after receipt thereof. When a complete impact report has been filed, it shall be
accepted by the Advisory Agency, and the Advisory Agency shall set a time, date
and place for a hearing, not less than fifteen (15) days and no later than
forty-five (45) days after the date of acceptance. At least fifteen days prior
to the hearing, the Advisory Agency shall mail notice to management and the
residents of the date, time and place of the hearing. The notice of hearing
shall contain a general explanation of the matters to be considered by the
Advisory Agency. The Advisory Agency may give such additional notice as it deems
necessary or desirable.	4.	Findings and Decision. After conclusion of the
hearing, the Advisory Agency shall render its decision. The Advisory Agency
shall approve, conditionally approve or disapprove the impact report. The
Advisory Agency shall approve the impact report if it finds: (a) that the impact
report contains the information required; and (b) that reasonable steps have
been or will be taken to mitigate the adverse impacts of the closure on each of
the residents. In approving the impact report, the Advisory Agency may impose
such conditions as it finds necessary to mitigate the adverse impacts on the
residents; however, any steps required to be taken by management pursuant to
this section shall not exceed the reasonable costs of relocation. At a minimum,
the Advisory Agency shall require management to comply with Section 47.08 of
this Code. Notice of the Advisory Agency action shall be mailed to management,
to all residents and to all persons who have filed written request
therefor.	Nothing in this section shall prevent any other governmental agency or
decision making body of the City of Los Angeles from imposing a condition
relating to relocation assistance on any discretionary approval involving the
mobilehome park.	5.	Request for Council Hearing.  Management, any resident, or
any officer, board, department or bureau of the City may request, and shall have
the right to, a hearing before the City Council on the sufficiency of the impact
report. The request shall be filed in duplicate, in a public office of the
Department of City Planning on forms provided for that purpose within ten days
after the action of the Advisory Agency. Such requests shall not be considered
as having been filed unless and until the form has been properly completed and
all information required by it has been submitted. The completed request form
and file shall then immediately be transmitted to the City Clerk for hearing
before the City Council.	The City Clerk shall set a time and date for a hearing,
not less than fifteen (15) days and not later than forty-five (45) days after
the filing date and shall mail written notice of such hearing to the management,
all residents, the person requesting the hearing, the Advisory Agency, and all
persons who have filed written request therefor, at least fifteen days prior to
the hearing.	The City Council, shall, upon conclusion of the hearing, within
seven days, declare its findings based upon the testimony and documents produced
before it or before the Advisory Agency.	For all requests for hearing, the City
Council may sustain, modify, reject or overrule any recommendations or rulings
of the Advisory Agency and may make such findings as are not inconsistent with
the provisions of this section.	6.	Extensions.  Any of the time limits
specified in this section may be extended by mutual consent of management and
the Advisory Agency, or the City Council, on requests for hearing.	E.	Expiration
and Extension of Impact Report.  The approval of an impact report shall become
null and void after 36 months from the date of the mailing of the final approval
of the impact report. Thereafter, management shall not convert, close or cease
the use of the park until such time as a new impact report is approved. However,
upon application of the management, filed with the Advisory Agency on or before
the date of expiration, the impact report may be extended by the Advisory Agency
up to an additional 36 months. An application for an extension shall be subject
to the notice and hearing procedures described in Subdivision 3 of Subsection D
of this section.	F.	Revocation and Amendment.  Any time prior to the closure of
the mobilehome park, the Advisory Agency may, in its discretion, and upon good
cause shown, initiate proceedings for the revocation or amendment of an impact
report. Good cause may include, but is not limited to, change of circumstances
which render the conditions or requirements of the impact report no longer
necessary or appropriate, negligent or fraudulent misrepresentation of fact
relating to the impact report, or noncompliance with the conditions of the
impact report. Prior to revoking or amending an impact report, the Advisory
Agency shall conduct a hearing in accordance with the procedures set forth in
Subdivision 3 of Subsection D of this section. Upon revocation, management shall
not convert, close or cease the use of the park until such time as a new impact
report is approved. Such revocation or amendment is subject to the same request
for hearing as is provided in Subdivision 5 of Subsection D of this
section.	G.	Evictions Pending Compliance with Impact Report.  Termination of a
tenancy of any resident pursuant to California Civil Code Section 798.56 or any
other provision of law shall not relieve management of its obligation to comply
with the conditions or requirements of the impact report applicable to that
resident. However, if the termination of tenancy is based on Subdivisions (a),
(b), (c), (d) or (e) of Section 798.56 of the California Civil Code, the
Advisory Agency, upon request by management, may grant to management extensions
of time within which to comply with the conditions of the impact
report.	H.	Additional Authority of the Advisory Agency.  If, notwithstanding
the fact that management has not served a six months’ or twelve months’
notice on the residents, the Advisory Agency finds that management is attempting
to close or convert a park, then the Advisory Agency shall require the filing of
an impact report.	I.	EXCEPTIONS.  If the U.S. Bankruptcy Court issues an order
requiring closure of the mobilehome park, as part of a valid bankruptcy
proceeding, then the provisions of this section shall not be
applicable.	J.	Remedies.	1.	The failure of management to comply with this
section or with any condition of the impact report shall be a defense in any
action to terminate tenancy under Subdivision (f) of Section 798.56 of the
California Civil Code.	2.	Violation of this section shall constitute a
misdemeanor. In addition, the violation of any valid condition of an impact
report imposed by the Advisory Agency pursuant to this section shall constitute
a misdemeanor.	K.	Effective Date.  The provisions of this section shall apply
to any eviction proceeding that has not yet been reduced to final judgment.
Accordingly, any affirmative defenses to an unlawful detainer proceeding created
or modified by this section shall apply to any such proceeding not reduced to
final judgment as of the effective date of this section.
