                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SELF SERVICE DISPLAY OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS. (§ 47.14)

  SELF SERVICE DISPLAY OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS.
	(Added by Ord. No. 173,261, Eff. 6/25/00.)	(a)	Definitions.  For the purposes
of this section, the following definitions shall apply:	1.	“Person” shall
mean any natural person, partnership, cooperative association, domestic or
foreign corporation, receiver, trustee, assignee, or any other legal
entity.	2.	“Tobacco product” shall mean any substance containing tobacco
leaf, including but not limited to cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff,
chewing tobacco, dipping tobacco, or any other preparation of
tobacco.	3.	“Tobacco retailer” shall mean any person who sells, offers for
sale, or does or offers to exchange for any form of consideration, tobacco,
tobacco products or tobacco paraphernalia; “tobacco retailing” shall mean
engaging in any of these things.	4.	“Vendor-assisted sale” shall mean a sale
requiring a direct, face-to-face exchange between the tobacco retailer and the
customer, in which the tobacco retailer or the tobacco retailer’s employee has
access to the tobacco product, and assists the customer by supplying the
product.  The customer does not take possession of the product until it is
purchased.	5.	“Self-service display” shall mean the open display of tobacco
products to which the public has access without the intervention or assistance 
of a store employee, including but not limited to a rack, shelf, or counter-top
display.	6.	“Cigar lounge” shall mean a private smokers’ lounge of an
enclosed area in or attached to a retail or wholesale tobacco shop that is
dedicated to the use of tobacco products.	7.	“Tobacco shop” shall mean a
business establishment whose main or principal purpose is the sale of tobacco
products, including but not limited to, cigars, pipe tobacco, and smoking
accessories.	(b)	Prohibition.  No person or tobacco retailer shall sell, permit
to be sold, or offer for sale any tobacco product by means of a self-service
display, or by any means other than vendor-assisted sales.  This prohibition
shall not apply to tobacco shops or cigar lounges.
