                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEFINITIONS. (§ 47.103)

  DEFINITIONS.	For purposes of this Article, the following terms and phrases
shall have the meanings set forth herein, unless the context clearly indicates a
different meaning.  Singular references also include plural and derivative uses
of defined terms where capitalized.	A.	Contract.  Contract means any written
agreement, or any term thereof, between a Mortgage Modification Consultant and
an Owner for the rendition of any Service as defined in this
Section.	B.	Mortgage Modification Consultant.	(1)	Mortgage Modification
Consultant means any Person who makes any solicitation, representation, or offer
to any Owner to perform for compensation or who, for compensation, performs any
service which the Mortgage Modification Consultant in any manner represents will
do any of the following:	(a)	Contact or negotiate with any beneficiary or
mortgagee for the purposes of modifying the interest rate, principal balance, or
terms of any loan prior to the recording of a Notice of Default.	(b)	Prevent the
recording of a Notice of Default.	(c)	Obtain any forbearance from any
beneficiary or mortgagee prior to the recording of a Notice of
Default.	(d)	Obtain any waiver of an acceleration clause contained in any
promissory notice or contract secured by a deed of trust or mortgage on a
Residence or contained in that deed of trust or mortgage prior to the recording
of a Notice of Default.	(e)	Assist an Owner to obtain a loan or advance of funds
to cure a mortgage default where the property is not the subject of a recorded
Notice of Default.	(f)	Avoid or ameliorate the impairment of an Owner’s credit
resulting from the threatened recording of a Notice of Default.	(g)	Save an
Owner’s residence from a threatened foreclosure.	(2)	Mortgage Modification
Consultant does not include any Person identified as exempt from the definition
of “Foreclosure consultant” by Subsection (b) of Section 2945.1 of the
California Civil Code.	C.	Notice of Default.  Notice of Default means a notice
that is recorded pursuant to the provisions of California Civil Code Section
2924.	D.	Owner.  Owner means the record title owner of residential real
property located in the City of Los Angeles.	E.	Person.  Person means any
individual, partnership, corporation, limited liability company, association, or
other entity, however organized.	F.	Residence.  Residence means residential
real property, consisting of one or more dwelling units, one of which the Owner
occupies as his or her principal place of residence, encumbered by a loan
secured by a deed of trust the terms of which the Owner wishes to modify in
order to reduce or fix the payments thereon, but is not the subject of a
recorded Notice of Default.	G.	Service.  Service means and includes, but is not
limited to, any of the following:	(1)	Debt, budget, or financial counseling of
any type.	(2)	Receiving money for the purpose of distributing it to creditors in
payment or partial payment of any obligation secured by a lien on a Residence
but prior to the recording of a Notice of Default on the
Residence.	(3)	Contacting creditors on behalf of an Owner of a Residence but
prior to the recording of a Notice of Default on the Residence.	(4)	Arranging or
attempting to arrange for an extension of the period within which the Owner of a
Residence may cure his or her default prior to the recording of a Notice of
Default.	(5)	Advising the filing of any document or assisting in any manner in
the preparation of any document for filing with any bankruptcy court on behalf
of an Owner of a Residence.	(6)	Giving any advice, explanation or instruction to
an Owner of a Residence which in any manner relates to the cure of an existing
or threatened default in, or in an obligation secured by a lien on, the
Owner’s Residence, or the postponement or avoidance of the recording of a
Notice of Default for the Owner’s Residence.
