                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

LANDLORDS – NONPAYMENT OF UTILITY BILLS. (§ 47.10)

  LANDLORDS – NONPAYMENT OF UTILITY BILLS.
	(Added By Ord. No. 162,975, Eff. 11/28/87.)	(a)	Declaration of Purpose.  The
City Council of the City of Los Angeles hereby finds that the providing of
essential public utilities to residential real property is necessary to the
health and welfare of the occupants of residential rental property and that the
nonpayment of utility bills by landlords constitutes a threat to the health and
safety of occupants of master-metered multiple-family dwellings. The City
Council of the City of Los Angeles also finds that the policy of the Department
of Water and Power provides that if a customer is receiving service at more than
one location, service at any or all locations may be discontinued if bills for
service at any one or more locations are not paid, and the City Council of the
City of Los Angeles declares that this policy is reasonable to assure that water
and electrical utilities can be provided to all residents of the City of Los
Angeles at a reasonable cost. The City Council of the City of Los Angeles
further finds that the failure to provide either water or electricity, or both,
to the occupants of residential units is a breach of the implied warranty of
habitability and constitutes a fraud upon the tenants of said dwellings.
Therefore, it is necessary and reasonable to safeguard tenants from threats to
their health and safety by the termination of essential public utilities due to
the nonpayment of utility bills by the owners of master-metered multiple-family
dwellings.	(b)	Definitions.  For the purpose of this section, the following
words and phrases are defined and shall be construed as hereinafter set
forth:	1.	“LANDLORD”  means an owner, lessor or sublessor (including any
person, firm, corporation, partnership or other entity) of a multiple-family
dwelling or the applicant on record with the Department of Water and Power for
water or electric service.	2.	“UTILITY BILLS”  mean bills issued by the
Department of Water and Power for the furnishing of water or
electricity.	3.	“THE DEPARTMENT”  means the Department of Water and Power
of the City of Los Angeles.	4.	“MASTER-METERED DWELLING”  means any
residential building in which for billing purposes one water or one electric
meter services a group of otherwise unmetered dwelling units or a group of
subordinate meters.	5.	“MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING”  means any residential
building which contains two (2) or more dwelling units, efficiency dwelling
units, guest rooms or suites as defined in Section 12.03 of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code.	(c)	Scope.  This section shall apply to all existing
master-metered multiple-family dwellings when the nonpayment of utility bills
had resulted in the service upon the landlord of a notice of termination for a
master-metered multiple-family dwelling pursuant to this section.	(d)	Notice. 
The Department, prior to initiation of criminal proceedings, shall serve
personally or by mail in a final notice to the landlord a demand for payment of
the outstanding bill and 2 fifteen-day (15) notice of utility termination. Said
notice shall include the address at which service is to be terminated in the
event of nonpayment and shall also, in bold-face type, notify the landlord that
failure to pay said utility bill by the date so stated in said notice
constitutes a misdemeanor.	(e)	Violation.  Any landlord who, having the ability
to pay, willfully refuses to pay utility bills due and payable after demand has
been made and written notice of utility termination has been served, is guilty
of a misdemeanor.
