                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SALE OF MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLES AND MOTORIZED BICYCLES. (§ 47.17)

  SALE OF MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLES AND MOTORIZED BICYCLES.
	(Added by Ord. No. 176,581, Eff. 5/22/05, Oper. 6/1/05.)	(a)	As used in this
section, the term “motor-driven cycle” shall mean any motor-driven cycle, as
that term is defined in the California Vehicle Code, that is sold without the
seventeen digit vehicle identification number required for registration by the
State of California.	(b)	As used in this section, the term “motorized
bicycle” shall mean any motorized bicycle, as that term is defined in the
California Vehicle Code, that is sold without all of the equipment required by
the State of California for operation on a highway in California.	(c)	As used in
this section, the term “person” shall mean any business or any individual
acting on behalf of any business, as that term is defined in Section 21.00(h) of
this Code.	(d)	No person shall sell or transfer ownership of any motor-driven
cycle or motorized bicycle without providing to the prospective purchaser or
transferee, prior to the sale or transfer of ownership, written notice, as
provided by this section, indicating in substance that the vehicle may not be
appropriate for operation on a public street or highway in California and that
operation of any vehicle on a public street or highway in California must be in
accordance with California law.  A notice shall be sufficient if it indicates
in substance that the vehicle is not intended for operation on a public street
or highway.	(e)	The notice required by this section shall be provided by a sign,
printed in boldface type at least one inch in height, posted in a conspicuous
location on the seller’s or transferor’s property and containing no
information other than the notice; and by at least one of the following:		(1)	A
decal affixed to a conspicuous location on the frame of the vehicle, printed in
at least 14-point boldface type;		(2)	A decal affixed to a conspicuous location
on the frame of the vehicle, which decal was in use by the seller or transferor
for the same make and model of vehicle prior to the enactment of this
section.	(f)	Any violation of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor.
