                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

FINDINGS. (§ 47.102)

  FINDINGS.	The Los Angeles City Council finds that:	A.	There is an
unprecedented number of homeowners in the City of Los Angeles threatened with
foreclosure;	B.	At the same time, there is an unprecedented effort on the part
of various governmental entities and lenders to encourage lenders and borrowers
to attempt to modify mortgages in order to make such loans more affordable and
to lessen, if not prevent, the possibility of foreclosure;	C.	On March 4, 2009,
the Obama Administration announced new U.S. Department of the Treasury
guidelines to enable loan servicers to begin modifications of eligible mortgages
under the Administration’s Homeowner Affordability and Stability
Plan;	D.	There has arisen a class of people who, preying on homeowners
threatened with foreclosure, falsely promise to attempt to modify mortgages in
exchange for advance payment and who provide no written contract for their
services, thus thwarting homeowners’ attempts to sue for breach of contract
when fraud becomes apparent;	E.	California state law currently regulates the
activities of people who offer to arrange for services purporting, among other
things, to cure mortgage defaults after a property is in foreclosure as
evidenced by the recording of a Notice of Default pursuant to California Civil
Code Section 2924, but there exists no state regulation of such people who offer
or provide such services prior to the recording of a Notice of Default;
and	F.	It is in the public interest that the activities of people who promise to
attempt to prevent foreclosure prior to the recording of a Notice of Default be
regulated.  Furthermore, in order to protect homeowners from the actions of
unscrupulous people who falsely promise to attempt to prevent foreclosure,
remedies must be provided where unlawful activity has occurred.	G.	This crisis
is only expected to worsen in the upcoming months as many adjustable rate
mortgages are scheduled to be reset to higher interest rates prompting a series
of new foreclosures in the City of Los Angeles while, at the same time, there
are unprecedented and well-publicized efforts to encourage homeowners to attempt
to modify their mortgages to affordable levels.	H.	The City Council enacts this
Article as an urgency ordinance pursuant to Charter Section 253 to prevent the
victimization of people who want to modify the terms of their existing mortgages
in order to make their homes more affordable and reduce the likelihood of going
into default and, thus, preserve public peace, health and safety.
