                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SPECTATORS PROHIBITED AT SPEED CONTESTS AND EXHIBITIONS OF SPEED. (§ 47.15)

  SPECTATORS PROHIBITED AT SPEED CONTESTS AND EXHIBITIONS OF SPEED.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 174,891, Eff. 12/1/02.)	A.	It shall be unlawful for any
person to:	1.	Be knowingly present as a spectator at any illegal motor vehicle
speed contest or exhibition of speed conducted on a public street or highway;
or	2.	Be knowingly present as a spectator where preparations are being made for
any illegal motor vehicle speed contest or exhibition of speed conducted on a
public street or highway.	B.	For purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply:	1.	“Illegal motor vehicle speed contest or exhibition
of speed” shall mean any speed contest or exhibition of speed referred to in
California Vehicle Code Sections 23109(a) and 23109(c)).	2.	“Spectator”
shall mean any person who is present at an illegal motor vehicle speed contest
or exhibition of speed for the purpose of viewing, observing, watching, or
witnessing the event as it progresses.  A “spectator” includes any person
at the location of the event without regard to the means by which the person
arrived.	3.	A person is “present” at the illegal motor vehicle speed contest
or exhibition of speed if that person is within 150 feet of the location of the
event, or within 150 feet where preparations are being made for the
event.	4.	“Preparations” means any of the following acts done for the
purpose of a motor vehicle speed contest or exhibition of speed:	(a)	A group of
motor vehicles and persons has arrived at a predetermined location;	(b)	A group
of individuals has lined one or both sides of a public street or
highway;	(c)	One or more persons have impeded the free public use of a public
street or highway by actions, words or physical barrier for the purpose of
conducting the event;	(d)	Two or more vehicles have lined up with motors running
for an illegal motor vehicle speed contest or exhibition of speed;	(e)	One or
more drivers is racing his engine or spinning his tires in preparation for the
event;	(f)	An individual is stationed near one or more motor vehicles as a race
starter.	C.	Notwithstanding any other provision of law, to prove a violation of
this section, admissible evidence may include, but is not limited to, any of the
following:	1.	That the person charged has previously participated in an illegal
speed contest or speed exhibition;	2.	That the person charged has previously
aided and abetted an illegal speed contest or speed exhibition;	3.	That the
person charged has previously attended an illegal speed contest or speed
exhibition;	4.	That the person charged was previously present at a location
where preparations were being made for an illegal speed contest or exhibition of
speed or where a speed exhibition or speed contest was in progress;	5.	Evidence
of these prior acts may be admissible to show the propensity of the defendant to
be present or attend a speed contest or speed exhibition if the prior act or
acts occurred within three years of the presently charged offense.  These prior
acts may always be admissible to show knowledge on the part of the defendant
that a speed contest was taking place.  	D.	A violation of this ordinance shall
constitute a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00, or by
imprisonment not to exceed six months, or both.
