                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

EXCESSIVE PRICE INCREASES DURING STATE OF EMERGENCY. (§ 47.12)

  EXCESSIVE PRICE INCREASES DURING STATE OF EMERGENCY.
	(Added by Ord. No. 168, 230, Eff. 10/11/92.)	(a)	Findings.  As a result of the
civil disturbance that commenced on April 29, 1992, consumers have sought to
purchase emergency supplies, food and other consumer goods necessary for their
health and safety.  Though no general shortage of consumer goods is evident,
numerous residents have reported cases of excessive price increases for consumer
items such as gasoline and food items many times above the prices in effect on
or before April 29, 1992.  Though price increases may be necessary where a
merchant has incurred higher expenses, the reported price increases clearly
exceed those that would be reasonable and just to recapture any increased
operational expenses.	(b)	Legislative Intent.  It is the intention of the City
Council in adopting this ordinance to protect citizens from excessive and
unjustified increases in the prices charged during any abnormal disruption of
the marketplace for consumer goods and services vital and necessary for the
health, safety and welfare of consumers resulting from emergency or major
disaster for which a state of emergency for the City of Los Angeles is
proclaimed by the Mayor pursuant to Section 8.27 of the Los Angeles
Administrative Code or for which a local disaster or emergency is declared by
the President of the United Sates or the Governor of California.	(c)	Excessive
Price Increases Prohibited.  Upon proclamation of public emergency involving or
threatening the lives, property or welfare of the citizens, pursuant to Section
8.27 of the Los Angeles Administrative Code or for which a local disaster or
emergency is declared by the President of the United States or Governor of
California and for a period of thirty days from the date such declaration is
terminated, it shall be unlawful for any person, contractor, business or other
entity to sell or offer to sell any consumer food items, repair or
reconstruction services, emergency or medical supplies or gasoline for an amount
which exceeds ten percent of the price charged by such person, contractor,
business or other entity for said goods or services immediately prior to the
proclamation of emergency, unless said person, business, contractor or other
entity can prove that an increase in price was directly attributable to
additional costs imposed on it by the supplier of the goods or for labor and
materials used to provide the service.	(d)	Definitions.  For purposes of this
section, the following definitions shall apply:	1.	A consumer food item is any
article which is used or intended for use for food, drink, confection or
condiment by man or other animal.	2.	Repair or reconstruction services are those
contractor services for repairs to residential and commercial property of any
type which are damaged as a result of a disaster.  Contractor services are
services as defined by sections 7025, 7026, 7026.1 and 7026.3 of the California
Business and Professions Code.	3.	Emergency supplies shall include but are not
limited to water, flashlights, radios, batteries, candles, blankets, soaps, and
diapers.	4.	Medical supplies shall include but are not limited to prescription
and non-prescription drugs, bandages, gauzes, and isopropyl
alcohol.	(e)	Hearing.  If there is reasonable cause to believe that a person
has violated the provisions of this section, the City Attorney shall, prior to
the filing of a criminal complaint, conduct a hearing upon due notice and an
opportunity to be heard.  At the conclusion of such hearing, the City Attorney
may, in his discretion, file a criminal complaint.  The City Attorney may, for
good cause, disperse with the requirement of conducting a hearing prior to the
filing of a criminal complaint.	(f)	Penalty.	1.	Any person who shall be
convicted of violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine of not less
than $1,000 or by imprisonment in the County Jail for not more than six months,
or by both such fine and imprisonment.  Any person believing that a violation
of said section has been committed may file a complaint with the City
Attorney.	2.	The City Attorney or any citizen may prosecute a civil action under
applicable state law to enforce this section and in any action a civil penalty
may be imposed as provided by law and where appropriate, restitution to
aggrieved consumers ordered.
