                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

APPLICATION FOR CLEARANCE. (§ 47.78)

  APPLICATION FOR CLEARANCE.	The City shall not approve a Conversion or
Demolition of a Residential Hotel, or any new development on the site of a
Destroyed or Demolished Residential Hotel, until LAHD has approved an
Application for Clearance filed by the Owner pursuant to this section.	A.	If an
Owner applies for a building permit for a Residential Hotel that constitutes a
proposed Conversion or Demolition of the Residential Hotel, or is a new
development on the site of a Destroyed or Demolished Residential Hotel, then the
following procedures shall apply:	1.	LADBS shall inform LAHD of the application
for a building permit.	2.	The Owner shall file an Application for Clearance with
LAHD.  Within 90 days after LAHD has deemed the application complete, LAHD
shall either deny the application or determine the conditions for approval of
the application.	3.	LAHD shall make one of the following determinations when an
Owner files a complete Application for Clearance:	(a)	Deny an Application for
Clearance if the applicant has violated the provisions of Subsection A. of
Section 47.82;	(b)	Exempt the property from the provisions of this article if
the Application for Clearance is for an Affordable Housing Project pursuant to
the provisions of Section 47.74; or	(c)	Determine the conditions for approval of
an Application for Clearance pursuant to Section 47.79.	4.	LAHD shall mail a
copy of LAHD’s letter of determination of an Application for Clearance to the
Owner, the occupants of the Residential Hotel’s units, and the applicable
Council office.	5.	The Owner and any Interested Party may appeal the conditions
for approval of an Application for Clearance to the General Manager’s Hearing
Officer pursuant to the provisions of Section 47.84.	6.	LAHD shall only approve
the Application for Clearance if the Owner complies with the conditions
determined by LAHD pursuant to this section or, if the conditions for approval
are appealed, as determined pursuant to Section 47.84.	B.	An Owner who files an
Application for Clearance with LAHD and wants the option to pay a fee pursuant
to the provisions of Subdivision 2. of Subsection A. of Section 47.79 shall pay
an application fee in the amount of $2000 for each application.  An Owner who
files an Application for Clearance with LAHD and does not want the option to pay
a fee pursuant to the provisions of Subdivision 2. of Subsection A. of Section
47.79 shall pay an application fee in the amount of $1108 for each
application.  The application fee shall pay for the City’s cost of
administering the application process.	C.	The Application for Clearance shall
contain the following information:	1.	The legal and mailing address of the
Residential Hotel;	2.	The names and addresses of all Owners or operators of the
Residential Hotel;	3.	The names of all Tenants in the Residential Hotel;	4.	The
total number of units in the Residential Hotel and the current uses;	5.	The
current rental rates for the Residential Units; and	6.	The length of each
Tenant’s tenancy in Residential Units affected by the Application for
Clearance.
