                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

CLAIM OF EXEMPTION. (§ 47.77)

  CLAIM OF EXEMPTION.	A.	Applications for Exemption based on Subsection A. of
Section 47.74, Affordable Housing Projects.  Applications for exemption based
on Subsection A. of Section 47.74 shall be subject to the provisions below of
this subsection:	1.	Filing of Application for Exemption.  An application for
exemption based on Subsection A. of Section 47.74 may be filed at any time by
the Owner.  The Owner shall pay an administrative fee in the amount of $205
when filing the application.  The fee shall pay for the cost of investigating
and processing the application.	2.	Owner’s Submission of Evidence.  The Owner
shall submit evidence with the application to support the claim of exemption. 
The Owner has the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that the
Residential Hotel is exempt from the provisions of this
article.	3.	Determination of Exempt Status.  LAHD shall issue a determination
of the claim for exemption based on the evidence submitted, and shall mail a
copy of the determination to the Owner within 90 days of filing the
application.	4.	Appeal of Denial of Application for Exemption.  An Owner may
appeal the denial of an application for exemption pursuant to the provisions of
Subsection C. of this section.	B.	Applications for Exemption based on Subsection
B. of Section 47.74.  Applications for exemptions based on Subsection B. of
Section 47.74 shall be subject to the provisions below of this
subsection:	1.	Timing of filing of Application for Exemption.  An application
for exemption based on Subsection B. of Section 47.74 must be filed within 60
days after LAHD mails notification pursuant to Subsection B. of Section 47.75. 
Failure to timely file an application for exemption will result in denial of the
application, unless LAHD finds that good cause exists for the untimely filing. 
The Owner shall also pay an administrative fee in the amount of $205 when filing
the application.  The fee shall pay for the cost of investigating and
processing the application.	2.	Posting Notice of Application for Exemption.  On
the date that the Owner files the application for exemption with LAHD, the Owner
shall post a notice.  The notice shall be on a form prescribed by LAHD.  The
notice shall provide the name and contact number of LAHD staff whom Tenants and
an Interested Party can contact to provide additional evidence and
information.  LAHD shall also mail a copy of the Owner’s application for
exemption to each of the units of the Residential Hotel.  The notice shall
remain posted until after LAHD issues a written determination regarding the
application for exemption.	3.	Submission of Evidence.  The Owner shall submit
evidence with the application to support the claim of exemption.  The Owner has
the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that the Residential
Hotel is exempt from the provisions of this article.  Any Interested Party may
submit evidence to LAHD.	4.	Determination of Exempt Status.  LAHD shall review
the application for exemption and evidence submitted.  LAHD shall issue a
determination of the application for exemption within 90 days of the filing of
the application.  LAHD shall mail a copy of the determination to the Owner and
to any Interested Party who submitted evidence pursuant to the provisions of
Subdivision 3. of this subsection.  The Owner shall post LAHD’s determination
until the time for filing any appeal expires.	5.	Appeal from Determination of
Exempt Status.  An Owner or any Interested Party who submitted evidence
pursuant to Subdivision 3. of this subsection may appeal LAHD’s determination
of an application for exemption pursuant to the provisions of Subsection C, of
this section.	C.	Appeal of Determination of Application for Exemption.  An
appeal pursuant to the provisions of Subdivision 4. of Subsection A. of this
section or Subdivision 5. of Subsection B. of this section may be made to the
General Manager’s Hearing Officer pursuant to the provisions of Section 47.84
of this article.  The appeal shall be filed at LAHD within 15 calendar days
after LAHD mails the determination of the application for exemption.  LAHD’s
determination of an application for exemption shall be final if a timely appeal
is not filed.  The appellant shall have the burden of proving by a
preponderance of the evidence that the decision on exemption was erroneous.
