                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEFINITIONS. (§ 47.73)

  DEFINITIONS.	Singular references also include plural and derivative uses of
defined terms where capitalized.	A.	Affordable Housing Project.  Affordable
Housing Project is a housing development project with a government-imposed
regulatory agreement that has been recorded with the Los Angeles County
Recorder, or which shall be recorded within six months of the Claim of Exemption
filed pursuant to Section 47.77, guaranteeing that all of the residential units
will be affordable to either lower income or very low income households for a
period of at least 55 years, with at least ten percent of the units affordable
to households with income no greater than 30 percent of Area Median Income, and
no more than 25 percent of the units affordable only to households with income
at 60 percent of Area Median Income.  None of the units shall be affordable
only to households with income greater than 60 percent of Area Median Income, as
these terms are defined by the United States Department of Housing.  “Lower
income or very low income households” is defined in accordance with California
Health and Safety Code Sections 50079.5 and 50105.	B.	Affordable Housing Trust
Fund.  Affordable Housing Trust Fund is a fund established by Los Angeles
Administrative Code Section 5.522.	C.	CRA/LA.  CRA/LA is the Community
Redevelopment Agency of the City of Los Angeles.	D.	Comparable Unit. 
Comparable Unit is a unit which is similar in size, services, rental amount and
facilities to the Residential Unit proposed to be converted or
demolished.	E.	Conversion.  Conversion is any action that converts any
Residential Unit in a Residential Hotel through either:  (1) a change of use to
a commercial, industrial, or other non-residential use; (2) a change to a
different residential use; (3) a change from a residential use to a transient or
tourist guest use or occupancy; or (4) a conversion to a condominium,
cooperative, or similar form of ownership.	F.	Demolition.  Demolition is any
action that reduces the number of existing guest rooms, light housekeeping
rooms, or efficiency units in a Residential Hotel, either by a complete tearing
down of a building or structure so that it no longer exists or by combining two
or more units into a single unit.	G.	Destroyed.  Destroyed is an action defined
by Section 12.03 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.	H.	Disaster.  Disaster is
an event defined by Section 12.03 of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code.	I.	Efficiency Dwelling Unit.  Efficiency Dwelling Unit is defined in
Section 12.03 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.	J.	GSD.  GSD is the Department
of General Services.	K.	Guest Room.  A Guest Room is defined in Section 12.03
of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.	L.	Interested Party.  An Interested Party is
a resident or Tenant of a Residential Hotel, or his or her authorized
representative.  Interested Party shall also mean any nonprofit organization
exempted from federal taxation pursuant to Subchapter F (commencing with Section
501) of Chapter 1 of Subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and
organized for the purpose of maintaining or creating affordable
housing.	M.	LADBS.  LADBS is the Los Angeles Department of Building and
Safety.	N.	LAHD.  LAHD is the Los Angeles Housing Department.	O.	Light
Housekeeping Rooms.  Light Housekeeping Rooms are those designed and used as a
bedroom and for the cooking and preparing of food, in conformance with the
provisions of Los Angeles Municipal Code Section 91.8116.	P.	Member of Appraisal
Institute.  Member of Appraisal Institute is a trade organization that
certifies appraisers who meet the requirements for the MAI
designation.	Q.	Owner.  Owner includes any person or legal entity holding any
ownership interest in a Residential Hotel or a building under consideration for
Residential Hotel status.	R.	Person.  A Person is defined in Section 11.01 (a)
of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.	S.	Residential Hotel.  A Residential Hotel,
as defined in accordance with California Health and Safety Code Section 50519,
is any building containing six or more guest rooms or efficiency units, intended
or designed to be used, or which are used, rented, or hired out, to be occupied,
or which are occupied, for sleeping purposes by guests, and which is also the
primary residence of those guests.  The term Residential Hotel excludes any
building containing six or more guest rooms or efficiency units, which is
primarily used by transient guests who do not occupy units in that building as
their primary residence.	T.	Residential Unit.  A Residential Unit is any guest
room, light housekeeping room, efficiency unit, or dwelling unit in a
Residential Hotel that was occupied as a primary residence on October 11,
2005.  If a unit was vacant on October 11, 2005, a Residential Unit shall mean
any guest room, light housekeeping room, efficiency unit, or dwelling unit in a
Residential Hotel that, on the first day that the unit was subsequently
occupied, was occupied as a primary residence.	U.	Tenant.  A Tenant is a Person
who is entitled to occupy and occupies a Residential Unit for at least 31
consecutive days.	V.	Tourist Unit.  A Tourist Unit is a unit in a Residential
Hotel that does not meet the criteria of a Residential Unit.
