                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

CONDITIONS FOR APPROVAL OF AN APPLICATION FOR CLEARANCE. (§ 47.79)

  CONDITIONS FOR APPROVAL OF AN APPLICATION FOR CLEARANCE.	A.	LAHD shall
require an Owner to satisfy one of the following conditions for approval of an
Application for Clearance:	1.	Construct, for each Residential Unit to be
Converted or Demolished, a Comparable Unit in the City of Los Angeles within a
two-mile radius of the units to be Converted or Demolished.	(a)	 LAHD may
authorize the construction of fewer units to replace the Residential Units to be
Converted or Demolished if LAHD determines that the following three conditions
are met:	(i)	The replacement units provide amenities, such as bathrooms and
kitchens, not present in the units to be withdrawn;	(ii)	The needs of the
current residents of the Residential Hotel would be served by the better
amenities and larger units; and	(iii)	The reduction in the number of units would
not significantly decrease the number of available Residential Units in the
City.	(b)	Where the Owner chooses to comply with the conditions for approval of
an Application for Clearance pursuant to this subdivision, LAHD shall not
approve the Application for Clearance until LADBS issues a certificate of
occupancy for units constructed pursuant to this subdivision, except where
CRA/LA has approved replacement units within four years of the date of
Demolition of the Residential Hotel units pursuant to CRA/LA Development
Guidelines and Controls for Residential Hotels in the City Center and Central
Industrial Redevelopment Project Areas, so long as the guidelines are in full
force and effect.	2.	Pay to the City of Los Angeles a fee in an amount equal to
80 percent of the cost of construction of an equal number of comparable
Residential Units plus 100 percent of site acquisition costs.  GSD shall
determine the fee amount based on an independent MAI certified appraisal
reviewed by GSD.  The applicant shall pay for the appraisal.  The fee payments
shall be placed in the Affordable Housing Trust Fund and be used for the
Permanent Supportive Housing Program pursuant to Subsection B. of this
section.  The funds deposited in the Affordable Housing Trust Fund for the
Permanent Supportive Housing Program pursuant to the provisions of this
subdivision may be used to create replacement units.  If the units to be
Converted or Demolished are in the City Center or Central Industrial
Redevelopment Project Area, the fee will be paid into the Affordable Housing
Trust Fund to be used for the Permanent Supportive Housing Program in accordance
with the CRA/LA’s Guidelines and Controls for Residential Hotels in the City
Center and Central Industrial Redevelopment Project Areas, for so long as the
guidelines are in full force and effect.	3.	Convert Residential Units to units
that are either Light Housekeeping Rooms, Efficiency Dwelling Units or dwelling
units, and which shall be subject to a regulatory agreement filed with the Los
Angeles County Recorder guaranteeing for a period of at least 55 years that at
least 10 percent of the units shall be affordable to households with income no
greater than 30 percent of Area Median Income, at least an additional 40 percent
of the units shall be affordable to households with income no greater than 40
percent of Area Median Income, and at least an additional 30 percent of the
units shall be affordable to households with income no greater than 50 percent
of Area Median Income, as these terms are defined by the United States
Department of Housing.  The initial rent for the remaining units may be set at
any amount.	(a)	The option provided by this subdivision applies only to
Residential Hotels containing more than 250 units.	(b)	LAHD may authorize the
construction of fewer units to replace the Residential Units to be Converted
pursuant to this subdivision if LAHD determines that the following three
conditions are met:	(i)	The replacement units provide amenities, such as
bathrooms and kitchens, not present in the units to be withdrawn;	(ii)	The needs
of the current residents of the Residential Hotel would be served by the better
amenities and larger units; and	(iii)	The reduction in the number of units would
not significantly decrease the number of available Residential Units in the
City.	B.	The funds deposited in the Affordable Housing Trust Fund pursuant to
the provisions of this article shall be used to provide capital funding for the
development of permanent supportive housing projects pursuant to the City’s
Permanent Supportive Housing Program.  At the end of the calendar year after
the year in which funds are deposited in the Affordable Housing Trust Fund, any
remaining funds that have not been committed through the Permanent Supportive
Housing Program shall be available for the development of affordable housing
projects funded through the Affordable Housing Trust Fund.  Units developed
with funds committed under the Affordable Housing Trust Fund pursuant to this
subsection shall be restricted to households with incomes no greater than 35% of
Area Median Income, as defined by the United States Department of Housing and
Urban Development.
