                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

RESIDENTIAL HOTEL STATUS DETERMINATION. (§ 47.75)

  RESIDENTIAL HOTEL STATUS DETERMINATION.	A.	LAHD will determine whether a
building is a Residential Hotel.	B.	LAHD shall notify the Owner of any building
that it classifies as a Residential Hotel that such building is subject to the
provisions of this article.  LAHD shall include in the notification a copy of
this article, the appeal form referenced in Subsection C. of this section, and
an Application for Exemption.  LAHD shall mail the notice to the Owner at the
address that appears in the last equalized assessment roll or at the address
provided to LAHD through any registration in accordance with Section 151.05. The
Owner shall immediately post the notice until the time for appealing such
designation expires.	C.	An Owner of a Residential Hotel or Interested Party who
alleges that the building is not a Residential Hotel may file an appeal with
LAHD within 60 days of the date that LAHD deposited its notification in the mail
pursuant to Subsection B. of this section.	1.	An appellant who files an appeal
shall do so on a form prescribed by LAHD and shall pay an administrative fee in
the amount of $605.  The fee shall pay for the cost of investigating and
processing the appeal.	2.	The appellant shall submit evidence with the appeal to
support the appeal.	3.	The appellant has the burden of proving by a
preponderance of the evidence that the property is not a Residential Hotel. 
Tenants, other Interested Parties and the Owner if the Owner is not the
appellant, may submit evidence to LAHD.	4.	Within 15 days of the filing of the
appeal, LAHD shall provide the appellant and any Interested Party requesting
such information all information LAHD relied upon in the determination from
which the appeal is made, except that the Owner’s confidential financial or
proprietary information shall not be disclosed to any Person other than the
Owner.  Within 20 days from receipt of such information, the appellant may
submit additional information to LAHD.	5.	On the date that the Owner files the
appeal, or as soon as LAHD notifies an Owner that an Interested Party has filed
an appeal, the Owner shall post a notice on a form prescribed by LAHD.  The
notice shall state that the appellant has appealed the City’s   The notice
shall identify the grounds for the appeal.  The notice shall provide the name
and contact number of LAHD staff an Owner or Interested Party can contact to
provide additional evidence and information regarding the appeal.  LAHD shall
also mail a copy of the notice to the occupants of the building subject to the
appeal.  The notice shall remain posted until after LAHD issues a written
determination regarding the appeal.	6.	LAHD shall issue a determination of the
appeal based on the evidence submitted within 90 days of the filing of the
appeal.  The basis for the determination shall be described therein.  LAHD
shall mail a copy of the determination to the Owner, and any Interested Party
who filed an appeal or submitted evidence pursuant to this section.	D.	An Owner
or any Interested Party who presented evidence pursuant to this section may
appeal LAHD’s determination to a General Manager’s Hearing Officer pursuant
to the provisions of Section 47.84.  The Owner shall post LAHD’s
determination until the time for filing any appeal expires.  The appeal shall
be filed at LAHD within 15 calendar days after LAHD mails its determination. 
LAHD’s determination shall be final if a timely appeal is not filed.	E.	Any
appeal of a Notice regarding a Residential Hotel determination that was sent to
an Owner of a building prior to the effective date of this Ordinance shall be
governed by the procedures set forth in Section 47.75 of this Ordinance unless
the appellant elects to utilize the appeal procedures set forth in Section 47.75
as they existed prior to the effective date of this Ordinance.
