                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

UNLAWFUL CONVERSION; REMEDIES; FINES. (§ 47.82)

  UNLAWFUL CONVERSION; REMEDIES; FINES.	A.	It shall be unlawful for any person
to Convert or Demolish any Residential Hotel building or Residential Unit in
violation of the provisions of this article.	1.	Changing the use of a
Residential Unit for non-commercial purposes that serves only the needs of the
permanent residents, such as a residents’ lounge, storeroom or common area,
does not constitute a violation of this article.	2.	Demolition of an existing
Residential Unit to combine units for a non-commercial purpose that serves only
the needs of the permanent residents does not constitute a violation of this
article.	3.	An Owner is prohibited from Converting or Demolishing less than all
of the original number of Residential Units in a Residential Hotel, except where
an Owner satisfies the conditions for approval of an Application for Clearance
pursuant to the provisions of Subdivision 3. of Subsection A. of Section
47.79.	B.	LAHD Order Regarding Violations and Fines.  Whenever LAHD determines
that any Residential Hotel is in violation of this article, LAHD shall order the
violation corrected, and shall impose a fine pursuant to the provisions of this
section.	C.	Appeal of Order to General Manager’s Hearing.  Where an Owner
believes that an order issued pursuant to the provisions of Subsection B. of
this section was in error regarding the violations identified or the fine
assessed, the Owner may appeal the order by filing a request for a General
Manager’s hearing pursuant to the provisions of Section 47.84.  The Owner
must file the appeal in writing on a form provided by the Department within 15
calendar days of when LAHD mailed the order.  If the appeal is not received
within this period, the order shall be final.  If the Owner timely appeals the
order to a General Manager’s hearing, the order shall be stayed pending the
appeal.	D.	Fines, Penalties and Interest.	1.	Imposition of Fine.  A Person
violating any provision of this article shall pay a fine up to the amount of
$250 per day for each violation that is the subject of an order issued pursuant
to Subsection B. of this section.  Fines imposed pursuant to orders that are
not appealed to a General Manager’s hearing must be paid within 30 days after
issuance of the order.  Fines not paid within 30 days shall be deemed
delinquent.  Fines imposed by orders that are appealed to a General Manager’s
hearing must be paid within 30 days after the Hearing Officer issues a written
decision pursuant to the provisions of Subsection F. of Section 47.84 if the
Hearing Officer affirms imposition of the fine.  Fines not paid within 30 days
of issuance of a decision shall be deemed delinquent.	2.	Imposition of Late
Penalty.  A Person whose fine is delinquent shall be assessed a penalty in the
amount of 100 percent of the fine.  The penalty shall be owed in addition to
the amount of the fine.	3.	Interest.  In addition to the fine and penalties
imposed, any Person with a delinquent fine shall pay interest on the amount of
the fine and any penalty owed at the rate of one and one-half percent per full
month of delinquency.	4.	Personal Obligation of Owner.  In addition to all
other remedies provided by law, all penalties and interest owed for violations
of this article shall be a personal obligation of the Owner, recoverable by the
City in an action before any court of competent jurisdiction.	5.	Criminal
Penalties for Violations.  Any Person willfully violating the requirements of
this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.  The penalty upon conviction
shall be not more than a fine of $1,000 or imprisonment in the county jail, not
exceeding six months, or both fine and imprisonment.  Violations of this
article are deemed continuing violations, and each day that a violation
continues is deemed to be a new and separate offense.	6.	False Information
Misdemeanor.  It shall be unlawful for any Person to willfully provide false
information to LAHD or its designees.  Any Person who provides false
information to the City, when required to provide information pursuant to this
article, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.  Conviction of this misdemeanor
shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $500 or by imprisonment in the
County Jail for a period not to exceed six months, or both fine and
imprisonment.	E.	Civil Action.  An Interested Party or the City may institute a
civil proceeding for injunctive relief and damages for violations of this
article.  The Interested Party instituting a civil proceeding, or the City
suing to enforce the provisions of this article, if prevailing parties, shall be
entitled to the costs of enforcing this article, including reasonable
attorneys’ fees, pursuant to an order of the Court.
