                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

APPEALS TO LAHD GENERAL MANAGER’S HEARING OFFICER. (§ 47.84)

  APPEALS TO LAHD GENERAL MANAGER’S HEARING OFFICER.	A.	Filing of the
Appeal.  Appeals to the General Manager’s Hearing Officer shall be on a form
prescribed by LAHD.  The appellant must pay a fee in the amount of $600 to fund
the administrative cost of the hearing process.  Appellants must state the
basis of the appeal and provide supporting evidence.	B.	Powers of the Hearing
Officer.  The General Manager’s Hearing Officer shall exercise all powers
related to the conduct of a hearing.  The Hearing Officer shall have the
discretion to grant a continuance of the hearing upon a showing of good cause. 
The Hearing Officer has the power to administer oaths and affirmations during
the hearing.  The Hearing Officer shall require the maintenance of order in the
hearing room, may order the exclusion of witnesses, may expel anyone who
disturbs the hearing, and may secure the aid of the Los Angeles Police
Department for these purposes.	C.	Notice of General Manager’s Hearing.  The
General Manager’s hearing shall be held within 60 days of the filing of the
appeal.  Notice of the General Manager’s hearing shall be mailed to the
Owner, via certified United States mail, postage prepaid, or delivered in
person, at least seven calendar days prior to the hearing.  Upon receipt of the
notice, the Owner shall post the notice and shall keep the notice posted until
after completion of the hearing.  LAHD shall also provide notice to the
occupants of the Residential Hotel by mail, or in person, at least seven
calendar days prior to the hearing.	D.	Presentation of Evidence.  LAHD staff,
the Owner, and any other Interested Party may present oral, photographic or
documentary evidence that is relevant to the case for consideration by the
Hearing Officer.  Appellants shall have the burden of proof, and shall present
substantial evidence and specific facts to support their appeal.	E.	Recording of
Hearing.  The proceedings shall be audio-recorded by LAHD.	F.	Hearing
Officer’s Decision.  After considering all relevant evidence and arguments,
the Hearing Officer shall issue a written decision within 30 calendar days of
the hearing. The Hearing Officer shall decide, based on the record, whether LAHD
erred or abused its discretion.  The decision shall be supported by written
findings.  LAHD will mail a copy of the decision to the Owner and any
Interested Party who presented evidence at the hearing, and the occupants of the
Residential Hotel.  The Owner shall post the Hearing Officer’s determination
for 20 days.  The decision of the Hearing Officer shall be the final
administrative decision except in the following circumstance:  If the Hearing
Officer authorizes construction of fewer units pursuant to Section 47.79 A.1.(a)
or Section 47.79 A.3.(b) and this results in a reduction of more than 25 percent
of the number of Residential Units being converted or demolished, the Owner or
any Interested Party may appeal the Hearing Officer’s decision to the City
Council pursuant to the provisions of Subsection G. of this section.	G.	Appeals
to the City Council.  Appeals to the City Council shall be filed with LAHD on
the forms prescribed by LAHD within fifteen days of the date of mailing of the
Hearing Officer’s decision.  LAHD shall transmit the appeal form to the City
Clerk for a public hearing before the City Council.  The City Council shall
hear the appeal within 30 days after it is filed, unless LAHD and the Owner
consent to an extension of time.  The Council shall give notice of the hearing
to the Appellant and any Interested Party who presented evidence at the hearing.
The Owner shall post notice of the hearing until the hearing is concluded. At
the time established for the hearing, the Council or its Committee shall hear
the testimony of LAHD staff, the Owner and any Interested Party, and any
witnesses on their behalf.  Appellants shall have the burden of proof, and
shall present substantial evidence and specific facts to support their appeal. 
Upon conclusion of the hearing, the City Council shall within ten days render
its decision on the appeal based upon the testimony and documents produced
before it.  The City Council may by resolution sustain, modify, or reject LAHD
authorization of the construction of fewer units pursuant to Section 47.79
A.1.(a) or Section 47.79 A.3.(b), and shall make findings consistent with the
provisions of this article.  Notice of the City Council’s decision shall be
mailed to LAHD, the Owner, and any Interested Party who presented evidence at
the hearing.  The Owner shall post the decision for 20 days after receipt of
the decision.  If at the end of the time limit specified in this subsection, or
time extension consented to by LAHD and Appellants, the City Council fails to
act, the appeal shall be deemed denied and the Hearing Officer’s decision from
which the appeal was taken shall be deemed affirmed.  It shall be the duty of
the City Clerk to issue the decision.	H.	Mayoral Review of City Council
Decision.  When the City Council renders a decision pursuant to Subsection G.
of this section, the matter together with the files and reports shall forthwith
be transmitted to the Mayor.  The Mayor may approve or disapprove the City
Council decision within ten working days of its presentation to the Mayor. 
This action shall be based solely upon the administrative record and whether the
Mayor believes the City Council decision is consistent with the provisions of
this article.  If the Mayor disapproves the decision, the Mayor shall return
the matter to the City Clerk for presentation to the City Council, along with
objections in writing.  If the Mayor does not disapprove the decision within
ten working days after its presentation, the City Council decision shall become
final and effective.	If the Mayor disapproves the City Council decision, the
Mayor shall return the matter to the Clerk for presentation to the City Council,
together with objections in writing.  The City Council may override the
disapproval by a two-thirds vote within ten working days of the first City
Council meeting at which the Clerk presented the matter with the objections of
the Mayor.  If the City Council fails to override the Mayor’s disapproval
within the ten working days, the following shall be the effect of the
disapproval:	(1)	If the City Council had sustained LAHD authorization of the
construction of fewer units, the Mayor’s disapproval shall constitute a
rejection of LAHD’s authorization of the construction of fewer units;	(2)	If
the City Council had modified LAHD authorization of the construction of fewer
units, the Mayor’s disapproval shall constitute approval of LAHD’s
authorization of the construction of fewer units; and	(3)	If the City Council
had rejected LAHD authorization of the construction of fewer units, the
Mayor’s disapproval shall constitute approval of LAHD’s authorization of the
construction of fewer units.
