                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

LOBBYING DISCLOSURE – FUNDRAISING ACTIVITY. (§ 48.08.7)

  LOBBYING DISCLOSURE – FUNDRAISING ACTIVITY.
	(Added by Ord. No. 175,432, Eff. 9/28/03, Oper. 1/1/04.)	A.	Every lobbying
entity who within any 12 month period (i) engaged in fundraising activities on
behalf of an elective City officer and/or any and all of his or her controlled
committees, and which knows or has reason to know that the fundraising
activities resulted in contributions, and/or (ii) delivered or acted as an
intermediary for one or more contributions to the elective City officer and/or
any and all of his or her controlled committees, shall file a notice with the
City Ethics Commission any time the activities identified in (i) and/or (ii)
aggregate more than $15,000 in the case of a member of the City Council, or more
than $35,000 in the case of the Mayor, City Attorney, or Controller.  The
notice shall be filed on a form prescribed by the City Ethics Commission within
one business day after any of these thresholds is exceeded.  The notice shall
contain the following information:	1.	The name, address and telephone number of
the filer, the name of the elective City officer, and/or any or all of his or
her controlled committees, on whose behalf the lobbying entity engaged in
fundraising activities, or delivered or acted as intermediary for one or more
contributions to the elective City officer and/or any and all of his or her
controlled committees, the date of the fundraising activity, and the amount of
contributions raised, delivered or in connection with which the lobbying entity
acted as an intermediary.	2.	For purposes of this section, a “controlled
committee” does not include any committee controlled by an elective City
officer that is (a) formed to support or oppose a ballot measure or (b) formed
to support the election of that officer to other than elective City
office.	3.	For purposes of this notification, if a fundraising event is
sponsored or hosted by more than one person, the amount of contributions
received at or as a result of the event shall be attributed to each lobbying
entity who hosted or sponsored the event according to the amount of the
contributions that resulted from that lobbying entity’s fundraising
activities.  If a contribution results from the fundraising of more than one
person and/or lobbying entity, that contribution shall be apportioned equally to
each of the persons and/or lobbying entity that engaged in the fundraising
activity. 	B.	The original notice shall be filed with the City Ethics
Commission, and copies shall be filed with the City Clerk and the elective City
officer involved.  Each notice may only include information relative to one
elective officer.	C.	The form shall be considered filed on the date of the
postmark or on the date of delivery to the City Ethics Commission, whichever is
earlier.	D.	The form shall be verified under penalty of perjury by the
individual filing it or by an officer of the entity authorized to file
it.	E.	The City Ethics Commission shall post the information in the notice on
its website within one business day of its receipt of the notice.  The City
Clerk shall make the notice available for inspection within one business day of
its receipt.
