                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

REGISTRATION. (§ 48.07)

  REGISTRATION.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 172,479, Eff. 4/10/99, Oper. 4/1/99.)	A.	Requirement.  An
individual who qualifies as a lobbyist shall register with the City Ethics
Commission within 10 days after the end of the calendar month in which the
individual qualifies as a lobbyist.  A person, including an individual
lobbyist, shall register with the City Ethics Commission as a lobbying firm
within 10 days after the end of the calendar month in which a partner, owner,
shareholder, officer or employee qualifies as a lobbyist.  If a person is not
registered as a lobbyist or lobbying firm, but is performing acts which would
require that person to so register, that person may continue to act as a
lobbyist or lobbying firm so long as the person registers with the City Ethics
Commission within 10 days after the person knew or should have known of the
obligation to register.  A lobbyist or lobbying firm shall register each client
on whose behalf or from which the lobbyist or lobbying firm receives or becomes
entitled to receive $250 or more in a calendar quarter for engaging in lobbying
activities related to attempting to influence municipal legislation.	B.	Duration
of Status.  A person who registers as a lobbyist or lobbying firm shall retain
that status through December 31 of that year unless and until that person
terminates the status as set forth below.	C.	Fees.  Every lobbyist shall pay an
annual registration fee of $450 plus $75 for each client on whose behalf or from
which the lobbyist receives or becomes entitled to receive $250 or more in a
calendar quarter.  Persons who initially register during the last quarter of a
calendar year (October through December) shall pay prorated registration fees of
$337 for each lobbyist plus $56 for each client.  (Amended by Ord. No. 175,028,
Eff. 2/5/03.)	D.	Contents of Registration Statements – Lobbyists. 
Registration statements of lobbyists shall contain the following:	1.	The
lobbyist’s name, business address, business email, and business telephone
number.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,360, Eff. 1/30/13.)	2.	The lobbying firm, if
any, of which the lobbyist is an employee, partner, officer or owner.	3.	If the
lobbyist is not an employee, partner, officer or owner of a lobbying firm, the
name, address and telephone number of the lobbyist’s employer.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 182,360, Eff. 1/30/13.)	4.	Each City agency that the lobbyist has the
authority to attempt to influence on behalf of any client or employer.	5.	A
statement that the lobbyist has reviewed and understands the requirements of
this article.	6.	Any other information required by regulation of the City Ethics
Commission, consistent with the purposes and provisions of this
article.	E.	Contents of Registration Statements – Lobbying Firms. 
Registration statements of lobbying firms (including individual contract
lobbyists) shall contain the following:	1.	The name, address, email, and
telephone number of the firm.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,360, Eff.
1/30/13.)	2.	The name of each lobbyist who is a partner, owner, shareholder,
officer or employee of the firm.	3.	For each client on whose behalf or from
which the firm received or became entitled to receive $250 in compensation
during the calendar quarter for engaging in lobbying activities related to
attempting to influence municipal legislation within the meaning of this
Article:  (Renumbered and Amended by Ord. No. 182,360, Eff. 1/30/13.)	(a) 	The
client’s name, business or residence address, and business or residence
telephone number.	(b) 	The period during which the representation will
occur.	(c) 	The item or items of municipal legislation for which the firm was
retained to represent the client, or, if no specific items of municipal
legislation for which the firm was retained to represent the client can be
identified, a description of the types of municipal legislation for which the
firm was retained to represent the client.	(d) 	Each City agency that the
lobbying firm has the authority to attempt to influence on behalf of the
client.	(e) 	In the case of a lobbyist who is an individual contract lobbyist, a
statement that he or she has reviewed and understands the requirements of this
Article.	(f) 	The name, address, email, and telephone number of the person
responsible for preparing the statement.	(g) 	Any other information required by
regulation of the City Ethics Commission, consistent with the purposes and
provisions of this Article.	F.	Amendments to Registrations.  Lobbyists and
lobbying firms shall file amendments to their registration statements within 10
days of any change in information required to be set forth on the registration
statement.  (Renumbered and Former Subsection F. deleted by Ord. No. 182,360,
Eff. 1/30/13.)	G.	Termination.  Any person registered under this Article shall
file a termination statement with the City Ethics Commission within 20 days
after ceasing all activity governed by this Article.  (Renumbered and Amended
by Ord. No. 182,360, Eff. 1/30/13.)	H.	Education Requirement.  Every individual
who is required to register as a lobbyist shall attend a City lobbying
information session conducted by the City Ethics Commission no less than once
every two calendar years, according to the following schedule:  (Renumbered by
Ord. No. 182,360, Eff. 1/30/13.)	(1)	An individual who has not registered as a
lobbyist in the immediately preceding two calendar years shall attend a City
lobbying information session within six months of his or her registration date
as a lobbyist.	(2)	A registered lobbyist who did not attend a City lobbying
information session during the previous calendar year shall attend a City
lobbying session by the end of the current calendar year.	(3)	A registered
lobbyist who attends a City lobbying information session during the current
calendar year is not required to attend a City lobbying information session
during the following calendar year.
