                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

LOBBYING DISCLOSURE – POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS. (§ 48.08.6)

  LOBBYING DISCLOSURE – POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS.
	(Added by Ord. No. 175,432, Eff. 9/28/03, Oper. 1/1/04.)	A.	Each lobbying
entity, which makes one or more contributions to an elective City officer and/or
to any or all of his or her controlled committees, shall file a notice with the
City Ethics Commission each time the making of a contribution results in the
lobbying entity having made contributions aggregating more than $7,000 to the
officer and/or his or her controlled committees within the past 12 months.  The
notice shall be filed on a form prescribed by the Commission within one business
day after making a contribution that triggers the filing requirement.  The
notice shall contain the following information:	1.	The name, address and
telephone number of the filer, the name of the elective City officer, and/or any
or all of his or her controlled committees, to which the lobbying entity made
contributions aggregating more than $7,000 during the past twelve months, and
the date and amount of each contribution.	2.	For purposes of this section, a
“controlled committee” does not include any committee controlled by an
elective City officer that is (a) formed to support or oppose a ballot measure
or (b) formed to support the election of that officer to other than elective
City office.	B.	The original notice shall be filed with the City Ethics
Commission, and copies shall be filed with the City Clerk and the elective City
officer involved.  Each notice may only include information relative to one
elective officer.	C.	The form shall be considered filed on the date of the
postmark or on the date of delivery to the City Ethics Commission, whichever is
earlier.	D.	The form shall be verified under penalty of perjury by the
individual filing it or by an officer of the entity authorized to file
it.	E.	The City Ethics Commission shall post the information in the notice on
its website within one business day of its receipt of the notice.  The City
Clerk shall make the notice available for inspection within one business day of
its receipt.
