                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEFINITIONS. (§ 48.02)

  DEFINITIONS.
	(Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 169,916, Eff. 8/10/94.)	The following
terms used in this article shall have the meanings set forth below.  Other
terms used in this article shall have the meanings set forth in the California
Political Reform Act of 1974, as amended, and in the regulations of the
California Fair Political Practices Commission, as amended, if defined
therein.	“Activity expense” means any payment, including any gift, made to
or directly benefiting any City official or member of his or her immediate
family, made by a lobbyist, lobbying firm, or lobbyist
employer.	“Administrative proceeding” (Deleted by Ord. No. 172,479, Eff.
4/10/99, Oper. 4/1/99.)	“Agency” means the City of Los Angeles or any
department, bureau, office, board, commission, other agency of the City, or any
other government agency, required to adopt a conflict of interest code subject
to City Council approval, and includes the City’s Community Redevelopment
Agency and the Los Angeles City Housing Authority.	“At the behest” means
under the control of, at the direction of, in cooperation, consultation,
coordination, or concert with, at the request or suggestion of, or with the
express prior consent of any elective City officer or candidate for elective
City office.  A donation to a religious, charitable, or other nonprofit
organization is not made at the behest of an elective City officer or candidate
if the donation is solicited through a newspaper publication, through radio,
television, or other mass media, or through a suggestion made to the entire
audience at a public gathering.  A donation to a religious, charitable, or
other nonprofit organization is not made at the behest of an elective City
officer or candidate solely because the name of the officer or candidate is
listed with other names on written materials used to request donations or the
officer or candidate makes a speech to the entire audience or is honored and
given an award at an event sponsored by the organization.  (Amended by Ord. No.
178,356, Eff. 3/12/07.)	“Attempting to influence” means promoting,
supporting, opposing or seeking to modify or delay any action on municipal
legislation by any means, including but not limited to providing or using
persuasion, information, statistics, analyses or studies.  A person attempts to
influence municipal legislation when he or she engages in lobbying activities
for the purpose of influencing a decision.  (Amended by Ord. No. 172,479, Eff.
4/10/99, Oper. 4/1/99.)	“City official” means any elective or appointed City
officer, member, employee or consultant (who qualifies as a public official
within the meaning of the Political Reform Act) of any agency, who, as part of
his or her official duties, participates in the consideration of any municipal
legislation other than in a purely clerical, secretarial or ministerial
capacity.  (Amended by Ord. No. 175,432, Eff. 9/28/03, Oper.
1/1/04.)	“Client” means both  (1)  the person who compensates a lobbyist
or lobbying firm for the purpose of attempting to influence municipal
legislation and  (2)  the person on whose behalf a lobbyist or lobbying firm
attempts to influence such municipal legislation, even if the lobbyist or
lobbying firm is compensated by another person for such representation. 
However, if a lobbyist or lobbying firm represents a membership organization and
individual members of that organization, an individual member is not a client
solely because the member is individually represented by the lobbyist or
lobbying firm unless the member makes a payment for such representation in
addition to usual membership fees.	“Client, Administrative” (Deleted by Ord.
No. 172,479, Eff. 4/10/99, Oper. 4/1/99.)	“Compensated Services” means
services for which compensation was paid during a reporting period or for which
the lobbyist or lobbying firm became entitled to compensation during that
period.	“Controlled committee” means any committee controlled by an elective
City officer or candidate for any elective City office, including any campaign,
officeholder, legal defense fund, or ballot measure committee.  (Added by Ord.
No. 175,432, Eff. 9/28/03, Oper. 1/1/04.)	“Direct communication” means
appearing as a witness before, talking to (either by telephone or in person),
corresponding with, or answering questions or inquiries from, any City official
or employee, either personally or through an agent who acts under one’s direct
supervision, control or direction.  (Added by Ord. No. 172,479, Eff. 4/10/99,
Oper. 4/1/99.)	“Donation” means a payment for which full and adequate
consideration is not received.  (Added by Ord. No. 175,432, Eff. 9/28/03, Oper.
1/1/04.)	“Elective City officer” means the Mayor, City Attorney, Controller
and Member of the City Council.  (Amended by Ord. No. 175,432, Eff. 9/28/03,
Oper. 1/1/04.)	“Elective Officer” means any person who is a City Council
Member, City Attorney, Controller or Mayor, whether appointed or elected. 
(Added by Ord. No. 175,432, Eff. 9/28/03, Oper. 1/1/04.)	“Fundraiser” means
an individual who receives compensation to engage in fundraising activity as
defined in this section.  (Added by Ord. No. 175,432, Eff. 9/28/03, Oper.
1/1/04.)	“Fundraising activity” means soliciting a contribution or hosting
or sponsoring a fundraising event or hiring a fundraiser or contractor to
conduct any event designed primarily for political fundraising at which
contributions for an elective City officer, candidate for elective City office,
or any of his or her controlled committees are solicited, delivered or made. 
(Added by Ord. No. 175,432, Eff. 9/28/03, Oper. 1/1/04.)	“Host or sponsor”
means to provide the use of a home or business to hold a political fundraising
event without charging market value for the use of that location; to ask more
than 25 persons to attend the event; to pay for at least a majority of the costs
of the event; or to provide the candidate, campaign, committee and/or fundraiser
more than 25 names to be used for invitations to the event.  (Added by Ord. No.
175,432, Eff. 9/28/03, Oper. 1/1/04.)	“Lobbying activities” includes the
following and similar compensated conduct when that conduct is related to a
direct communication to influence any municipal legislation:	(1)	engaging in,
either personally or through an agent, written or oral direct communication with
a City official;	(2)	drafting ordinances, resolutions or
regulations;	(3)	providing advice or recommending strategy to a client or
others;	(4)	research, investigation and information gathering;	(5)	seeking to
influence the position of a third party on municipal legislation or an issue
related to municipal legislation by any means, including but not limited to
engaging in community, public or press relations activities; and	(6)	attending
or monitoring City meetings, hearings or other events.(Added by Ord. No.
172,479, Eff. 4/10/99, Oper. 4/1/99.)	“Lobbying entity” means a lobbyist,
lobbying firm or lobbyist employer, as defined in this article.  (Added by Ord.
No. 175,432, Eff. 9/28/03, Oper. 1/1/04.)	“Lobbying firm” means any entity,
including an individual lobbyist, which receives or becomes entitled to receive
$1,000 or more in monetary or in-kind compensation for engaging in lobbying
activities (either personally or through its agents) during any consecutive
three-month period, for the purpose of attempting to influence municipal
legislation on behalf of any other person, provided any partner, owner,
shareholder, officer or employee of the entity qualifies as a lobbyist. 
Compensation does not include reimbursement of or payment for reasonable travel
expenses.  An entity receives compensation within the meaning of this
definition whether or not the compensation is received solely for activities
regulated by this article or is received for other activities as well; however,
only that portion of compensation received for the lobbying activities shall
count toward the qualification threshold.  An entity “becomes entitled to
receive compensation” when the entity agrees to provide services regulated by
this article, or performs those services, whether or not payment is contingent
on the accomplishment of the client’s purposes.  (Amended by Ord. No.
178,064, Eff. 1/15/07.)	“Lobbyist” (Amended by Ord. No. 178,064, Eff.
1/15/07.) means any individual who is compensated to spend 30 or more hours in
any consecutive three-month period engaged in lobbying activities which include
at least one direct communication with a City official or employee, conducted
either personally or through agents, for the purpose of attempting to influence
municipal legislation on behalf of any person.	Compensation does not include
reimbursement of or payment for reasonable travel expenses.  A person receives
compensation within the meaning of this definition whether or not the
compensation is received solely for activities regulated by this article or is
received for both lobbying activities and other activities as well.  However,
only the compensation for the lobbying activities shall be calculated to
determine whether an individual qualifies as a lobbyist.  An individual
“becomes entitled to receive compensation” when the individual or the entity
in which the individual is an employee, partner, owner, shareholder or officer,
agrees to provide services regulated by this article, or performs those
services, regardless of whether payment is contingent on the accomplishment of
the client’s purposes.	A lobbyist includes a person who owns an investment in
a business entity if that person attempts to influence municipal legislation on
behalf of the business entity and if the person acquires the investment as
compensation for his or her lobbying services or in contemplation of performing
those services.	“Lobbyist employer” means an entity, other than a lobbying
firm, that employs a lobbyist in-house to lobby on its behalf.	“Major filer”
means any person who makes payments or incurs expenditures totaling $5,000 or
more during any calendar quarter for public relations, media relations,
advertising, public outreach, research, investigation, reports, analyses,
studies, or similar activities, for the purpose of attempting to influence
action on any proposed or pending matter of municipal legislation, if these
payments or expenditures are not required to be reported on a lobbyist or
lobbying firm quarterly report.  A “major filer” does not include a
lobbyist, lobbyist employer, or lobbying firm.  Expenditures and payments for
regularly published newsletters or other routine communications between an
organization and its members shall not be counted for the purpose of this
definition.  (Amended by Ord. No. 172,479, Eff. 4/10/99, Oper.
4/1/99.)	“Municipal legislation” means any legislative or administrative
matter proposed or pending before any agency (as defined in this article),
including but not limited to those involving the granting, denial, revocation,
restriction or modification of a license, permit or entitlement for use
(including all land use permits) if the Mayor, the City Council, any of its
committees, any agency board, commission, committee, or general manager, or any
agency officer or employee charged by law with holding a hearing and making a
decision, is charged by law with making a final decision on the matter. 
However, “municipal legislation” does not include any of the
following:	(1)	A request for advice or for an interpretation of laws,
regulations, City approvals or policies, or a direct response to an enforcement
proceeding with the City Ethics Commission.	(2)	Any ministerial action.  An
action is ministerial if it does not require the City official or employees
involved to exercise discretion concerning any outcome or course of
action.	(3)	Any action relating to the establishment, amendment, administration,
implementation or interpretation of a collective bargaining agreement or
memorandum of understanding between an agency and a recognized employee
organization, or a proceeding before the Civil Service Commission or the
Employee Relations Board.  Further, it does not include management decisions as
to the working conditions of represented employees that clearly relate to the
terms of such collective bargaining agreement or memorandum of understanding. 
Nevertheless, “municipal legislation” does include any action relating to
collective bargaining taken by the City Council, any of its committees or
members (including the staffs of such members), or by the Mayor or his or her
office.	(4)	Preparation or compilation of any radius map, vicinity map, plot
plan, site plan, property owners or tenants list, abutting property owners list,
photographs of property, proof of ownership or copy of lease, or neighbor
signatures required to be submitted to the City Planning Department.(Amended by
Ord. No. 172,479, Eff. 4/10/99, Oper. 4/1/99.)	“Person” means any
individual, business entity, trust, corporation, association, committee, or any
other organization or group of persons acting in concert.	“Solicit” means to
ask, personally or through an agent, that another person make a contribution to
an elective City officer or candidate for City office, or to his or her
controlled committee, including allowing one’s signature to be used on a
written request for funds.  For purposes of this article, a lobbying entity
solicits a contribution only when the lobbying entity does so (i) at the behest
of the elective City officer or candidate for elective City office, or his or
her campaign treasurer, campaign manager, or member of his or her fundraising
committee, or (ii) if the lobbying entity has informed the candidate or officer
that the person is soliciting the contributions.  A person does not solicit,
however, by making a request for funds publicly to at least a majority of
persons who attend any public gathering, or by making a request that appears
published in a newspaper, on radio or television.  (Added by Ord. No. 175,432,
Eff. 9/28/03, Oper. 1/1/04.)
