                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DISCLOSURE REPORTS. (§ 48.08)

  DISCLOSURE REPORTS.
	(Title Amended by Ord. No. 175,432, Eff. 9/28/03, Oper. 1/1/04.)	A.	Reporting
Requirement.  Every lobbyist, lobbying firm, lobbyist employer and major filer
shall file the quarterly disclosure reports required by this Section on or
before the last day of the month following each calendar quarter.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 182,360, Eff. 1/30/13.)	1.	All lobbyists and lobbying firms shall file
quarterly reports for every calendar quarter during which they retain that
status.  An individual who qualifies both as a lobbyist and lobbying firm shall
file only a lobbying firm quarterly report. Lobbyist employers shall file
quarterly reports for every calendar quarter during which any individual
employed by that employer retains the status as lobbyist.  Information required
to be disclosed concerning compensation received or expenditures made for
lobbying shall be disclosed either by the lobbyist or by his or her lobbying
firm or employer.	2.	Major filers shall file quarterly reports for every
calendar quarter during which they made qualifying payments or incurred
qualifying expenditures totaling $5,000 or more.	3.	Quarterly reports shall
disclose all required information for the calendar quarter immediately prior to
the month in which the report is required to be filed.  (Amended by Ord. No.
182,360, Eff. 1/30/13.)	B.	Quarterly Reports by Lobbyists – Contents. 
Quarterly reports by lobbyists shall contain the following information:	1.	The
lobbyist’s name, business address and business telephone number.	2.	The
lobbying firm, if any, of which the lobbyist is a partner, owner, shareholder,
officer or employee.	3.	If the lobbyist is not a partner, officer or owner of a
lobbying firm, the name, address and telephone number of the lobbyist’s
employer.	4.	The date, amount and description of each activity expense of $25 or
more made by the lobbyist during the reporting period, the name and title of the
City official benefiting from the expense, the name and address of the payee,
and the client, if any, on whose behalf the expense was made.  An activity
expense shall be considered to be made on behalf of a client if the client
requested or authorized the expense or if the expense was made in connection
with an event at which the lobbyist attempted to influence the official on
behalf of the client.	5.	The total amount of activity expenses made by the
lobbyist during the reporting period, whether or not itemized.	6.	The name of
any elective City officer, candidate for elective City office, or any controlled
committee of the officer or candidate to which the lobbyist made contributions
of $100 or more, or which were delivered by the lobbyist, or in connection with
which the lobbyist acted as an intermediary during the reporting period, and the
date and amount of the contribution.  (Amended by Ord. No. 175,432, Eff.
9/28/03, Oper. 1/1/04.)	7.	The name of any elective City officer, candidate for
elective City office, or any City controlled committee of the officer or
candidate for which the lobbyist engaged in any fundraising activity during the
reporting period, the date(s) of the activity and the amount of funds the
lobbyist knows or has reason to know were raised as a result of the activity. 
(Added by Ord. No. 175,432, Eff. 9/28/03, Oper. 1/1/04.)	8.	The date and amount
of one or more contributions aggregating more than $1,000 made by the lobbyist
at the behest of an elective City officer or candidate for elective City office
during the reporting period to any and all controlled committees of any other
elective City officer or candidate for elective City office, the name and
address of the payee, the name of the elective City officer or candidate for
elective City office who made the behest and the date of the behest.  (Added by
Ord. No. 175,432, Eff. 9/28/03, Oper. 1/1/04.)	9.	The date, amount and
description of one or more donations aggregating $1,000 or more made by the
lobbyist at the behest of an elective City officer or candidate for elective
City office during the reporting period to any religious, charitable or other
nonprofit organization, the name and address of the payee, the name of the
elective City officer or candidate for elective City office who made the behest
and the date of the behest.  (Added by Ord. No. 175,432, Eff. 9/28/03, Oper.
1/1/04.)	10.	If, during the quarterly reporting period, the lobbyist provided
compensated services, including consulting services, to the campaign of any
candidate for elective City office, or to a campaign for or against any City
ballot measure, the name of the candidate, the elective City office sought by
the candidate, the ballot number or letter of the ballot measure, the date of
the election, the amount of compensation earned for the compensated services,
and a description of the nature of the services provided.  Such information
shall be reported if the lobbyist personally provided the services, or if the
services were provided by a business entity in which the lobbyist owns at least
a 10% investment, whether the compensation was provided directly to the lobbyist
or to such business entity.  (Former Subdivision B.7. redesignated by Ord. No.
175,432, Eff. 9/28/03, Oper. 1/1/04.)	11.	If, during the quarterly reporting
period, the lobbyist provided compensated services under contract with the City
or with any City agency, including consulting services, the amount of
compensation received, the agency for which the services were provided, a
description or other identification of the contract and the nature of the
services provided.  Such information shall be reported if the lobbyist
personally provided the services, or if the services were provided by a business
entity in which the lobbyist owns at least a 10% investment, whether the
compensation was provided directly to the lobbyist or to such business entity. 
(Former Subdivision B.8. redesignated by Ord. No. 175,432, Eff. 9/28/03, Oper.
1/1/04.)	12.	Each City agency that the lobbyist attempted to influence. 
(Former Subdivision B.9. redesignated by Ord. No. 175,432, Eff. 9/28/03, Oper.
1/1/04.)	13.	Any other information required by regulation of the City Ethics
Commission, consistent with the purposes and provisions of this article. 
(Former Subdivision B.10. redesignated by Ord. No. 175,432, Eff. 9/28/03, Oper.
1/1/04.)	C.	Quarterly Reports by Lobbying Firms – Contents.  Quarterly
reports by lobbying firms, including individual contract lobbyists, shall
contain the following information:  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,360, Eff.
1/30/13.)	1.	The name, address, email, and telephone number of the firm.	2.	The
name of each lobbyist who is a partner, owner, shareholder, officer or employee
of the firm.	3.	The name, address and telephone number of each client that is
required to be registered and was represented by the firm during the reporting
period; a description of each item of municipal legislation for which the firm
or its lobbyists represented the client during the reporting period; the total
amount of payments received by the firm from each client (including all fees,
reimbursements for expenses and other payments) during the reporting period for
such representation.	4.	The total payments received from clients required to be
registered by the firm during the reporting period in connection with the
firm’s representation of clients on municipal legislation.	5.	The date, amount
and description of each activity expense of $25 or more made by the lobbying
firm during the reporting period, the name and title of the City official
benefiting from the expense, the name and address of the payee, and the client,
if any, on whose behalf the expense was made.  An activity expense shall be
considered to be made on behalf of a client if the client requested or
authorized the expense or if the expense was made in connection with an event at
which the lobbying firm attempted to influence the official on behalf of the
client.	6.	The total amount of activity expenses made by the lobbying firm
during the reporting period, whether or not itemized.	7.	The total amount of
expenses incurred in connection with attempts by the firm to influence municipal
legislation.  These expenses shall include:	(a)	total payments to lobbyists
employed by the firm;	(b)	total payments to employees of the firm, other than
lobbyists, who engaged in attempts to influence municipal legislation during the
reporting period; and	(c)	all expenses attributable to attempts to influence
municipal legislation, other than overhead, and other expenses that would not be
incurred but for the attempts to influence.  Each such expense of $5,000 or
more shall be itemized and described.	8.	The name of any elective City officer,
candidate for elective City office, or any controlled committee of the officer
or candidate to which the lobbying firm made contributions of $100 or more, or
which were delivered by the lobbying firm, or in connection with which the
lobbying firm acted as an intermediary during the reporting period, and the date
and amount of the contribution.  (Amended by Ord. No. 175,432, Eff. 9/28/03,
Oper. 1/1/04.)	9.	The name of any elective City officer, candidate for elective
City office, or any City controlled committee of the officer or candidate for
which the lobbying firm engaged in any fundraising activity during the reporting
period, the date(s) of the activity and the amount of funds the lobbying firm
knows or has reason to know were raised as a result of the activity.  (Added by
Ord. No. 175,432, Eff. 9/28/03, Oper. 1/1/04.)	10.	The date and amount of one or
more contributions aggregating more than $1,000 made by the lobbying firm at the
behest of an elective City officer or candidate for elective City office during
the reporting period to any and all controlled committees of any other elective
City officer or candidate for elective City office, the name and address of the
payee, the name of the elective City officer or candidate for elective City
office who made the behest and the date of the behest.  (Added by Ord. No.
175,432, Eff. 9/28/03, Oper. 1/1/04.)	11.	The date, amount and description of
one or more donations aggregating $1,000 or more made by the lobbying firm at
the behest of an elective City officer or candidate for elective City office
during the reporting period to any religious, charitable or other nonprofit
organization, the name and address of the payee, the name of the elective City
officer or candidate for elective City office who made the behest and the date
of the behest.  (Added by Ord. No. 175,432, Eff. 9/28/03, Oper.
1/1/04.)	12.	If, during the quarterly reporting period, the lobbying firm
provided compensated services, including consulting services, to the campaign of
any candidate for elective City office, or to a campaign for or against any City
ballot measure, the name of the candidate, the elective City office sought by
the candidate, the ballot number or letter of the ballot measure, the date of
the election, the amount of compensation earned for the compensated services and
a description of the services provided.	13.	If, during the quarterly reporting
period, the lobbying firm provided compensated services under contract with the
City or with any agency, including consulting services, the amount of
compensation received, the agency for which the services were provided, a
description or other identification of the contract and the nature of the
services provided.  For an individual contract lobbyist who qualifies as a
lobbying firm, such information shall be reported if the lobbyist personally
provided the services, or if the services were provided by a business entity in
which the lobbyist owns at least a 10% investment, regardless of whether the
compensation was provided directly to the lobbyist or to such business
entity.	14.	For an individual contract lobbyist who qualifies as a lobbying
firm, each City agency that the lobbyist attempted to influence.	15.	The name,
address, email, and telephone number of the person responsible for preparing the
report.	16.	Any other information required by regulation of the City Ethics
Commission, consistent with the purposes and provisions of this
article.	D.	Quarterly Reports by Lobbyist Employers – Contents.  Quarterly
reports by lobbyist employers shall contain the following information. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 182,360, Eff. 1/30/13.)	1.	The name, address, email, and
telephone number of the entity filing the report.	2.	The name of each lobbyist
who is employed by the entity.	3.	Total payments during the reporting period to
lobbyists employed by the entity.  Such payments shall include solely payments
for compensation and reimbursement of expenses relating to the lobbyists’
attempts to influence municipal legislation.	4.	Total payments to employees of
the entity, other than lobbyists, who engaged in attempts to influence municipal
legislation during the reporting period.  Such payments shall include payments
for compensation and reimbursement of expenses relating to such persons’
attempts to influence municipal legislation.	5.	Total payments for expenses
incurred in connection with attempts by the entity during the reporting period
to influence municipal legislation.  These expenses shall include all expenses
attributable to attempts to influence municipal legislation, other than
overhead, and other expenses that would not be incurred but for the attempts to
influence. Each such expense of $5,000 or more shall be itemized and
described.	6.	A description of each item of municipal legislation which the
entity attempted to influence during the reporting period.	7.	The date, amount
and description of each activity expense of $25 or more made by the lobbyist
employer during the reporting period, the name and title of the City official
benefiting from the expense, and the name and address of the payee.	8.	The total
amount of activity expenses made by the lobbyist employer during the reporting
period, whether or not itemized.	9.	The name of any elective City officer,
candidate for elective City office, or any controlled committee of the officer
or candidate to which the lobbyist employer made contributions of $100 or more,
or which were delivered by the lobbyist employer, or in connection with which
the lobbyist employer acted as an intermediary during the reporting period, and
the date and amount of the contribution.  (Amended by Ord. No. 175,432, Eff.
9/28/03, Oper. 1/1/04.)	10.	The name of any elective City officer, candidate for
elective City office, or any City controlled committee of the officer or
candidate for which the lobbyist employer engaged in any fundraising activity
during the reporting period, the date(s) of the activity and the amount of funds
the lobbyist employer knows or has reason to know were raised as a result of the
activity.  (Added by Ord. No. 175,432, Eff. 9/28/03, Oper. 1/1/04.)	11.	The
date and amount of one or more contributions aggregating more than $1,000 made
by the lobbyist employer at the behest of an elective City officer or candidate
for elective City office during the reporting period to any and all controlled
committees of any other elective City officer or candidate for elective City
office, the name and address of the payee, the name of the elective City officer
or candidate for elective City office who made the behest and the date of the
behest.  (Added by Ord. No. 175,432, Eff. 9/28/03, Oper. 1/1/04.)	12.	The date,
amount and description of one or more donations aggregating $1,000 or more made
by the lobbyist employer at the behest of an elective City officer or candidate
for elective City office during the reporting period to any religious,
charitable or other nonprofit organization, the name and address of the payee,
the name of the elective City officer or candidate for elective City office who
made the behest and the date of the behest.  (Added by Ord. No. 175,432, Eff.
9/28/03, Oper. 1/1/04.)	13.	The name, address, email, and telephone number of
the person responsible for preparing the report.	14.	Any other information
required by regulation of the City Ethics Commission, consistent with the
purposes and provisions of this article.	E.	Quarterly Reports by Major Filers
– Contents.  Quarterly reports by major filers shall contain the following
information:	1.	The name, address and telephone number of the person filing the
report.	2.	A description of each item of municipal legislation which the entity
attempted to influence during the reporting period.	3.	The total payments made
during the reporting period for the purpose of attempting to influence action on
each proposed or pending matter of municipal legislation.	4.	The name, address
and telephone number of the person responsible for preparing the report.	5.	Any
other information required by regulation of the City Ethics Commission,
consistent with the purposes and provision of this article.
