                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

EXEMPTIONS. (§ 48.03)

  EXEMPTIONS.
	(Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 169,916, Eff. 8/10/94.)	The following
persons are exempt from the requirements of this article:	A.	Any public official
acting in his or her official capacity, and any government employee acting
within the scope of his or her employment.	B.	A newspaper or other regularly
published periodical, radio or television station or network, including any
individual who owns, publishes or is employed by such newspaper, periodical or
station or network, when, in the ordinary course of its business, it publishes
or broadcasts news, editorials or other comments, or paid advertising, which
directly or indirectly attempts to influence action on municipal legislation. 
This exemption does not apply to any other action by any such newspaper,
periodical, station or network, or by any such person, to attempt to influence
municipal legislation, if such activity is otherwise regulated by this
article.	C.	A person acting without any compensation or consideration other than
reimbursement or payment of reasonable travel expenses.	D.	Any person whose only
activity is submitting a bid on a competitively bid contract, submitting a
written response to or participating in an oral interview for a request for
proposals or qualifications, or negotiating the terms of a written agreement
with any City agency if selected pursuant to that bid or request for proposals
or qualifications.  Except with regard to persons covered by Subsections E and
F, this exemption shall not apply to any person who attempts to influence the
action of the Mayor or Mayor’s staff, any member of the City Council or their
staffs, or any board or commission member with regard to any such
contract.	E.	Any organization exempt from federal taxation pursuant to Section
501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, which receives funding from any federal,
state or local government agency for the purpose of representing the interests
of indigent persons and whose primary purpose is to provide direct services to
those persons, if the individual or individuals represented by the organization
before any City agency provide no payment to the organization for that
representation.   This exemption shall not apply to direct contacts with  a
City official in other than a publicly noticed meeting, for the purpose of
attempting to influence a City decision with regard to any City funding which
the organization is seeking.	F.	Any person employed by an organization described
in Subsection E with respect to his or her activities as an employee of the
organization.
