                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DISCLOSURE REGARDING ECONOMIC INTERESTS AND OTHER OUTSIDE INTERESTS. (§ 49.5.6)

  DISCLOSURE REGARDING ECONOMIC INTERESTS AND OTHER OUTSIDE INTERESTS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 167,949, Eff. 7/5/92; Title Amended by Ord. No. 177,853,
Eff. 10/7/06.)	A.	Persons Required to File.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,101, Eff.
3/27/00.)*  The Mayor, City Attorney, Controller, members of the City Council,
each chief administrative officer of a City department or office, and each
member of a board or commission who is a designated employee pursuant to the
conflict of interest Code of his or her agency shall file a statement of
economic interests pursuant to the Political Reform Act of 1974, as amended, and
shall additionally file a financial disclosure statement pursuant to the
provisions of this section.  There shall be two classes of
filers,	(1)	“high-level filers” and	(2)	“other filers”, who shall
include all filers other than “high-level filers”.	B.	Disclosure Periods and
Filing Deadlines. (Amended by Ord. No. 173,101, Eff. 3/27/00.)*  On or before
April 1 of each calendar year, all filers referred to in Subsection A shall file
a statement of economic interests and a financial disclosure statement pursuant
to this section, covering a disclosure period of January 1 through December 31
of the previous calendar year.  On or before October 1 of each calendar year,
all filers referred to in Subsection A shall either certify that there have been
no changes in their reportable financial interests during the period of January
1 through June 30 or shall file a semi-annual financial disclosure statement
disclosing any changes in their reportable financial interests which occurred
during that period.	C.	Disclosure Requirement for High-Level Filers.	1.	In
addition to statements of economic interests filed pursuant to the Political
Reform Act of 1974, as amended, high-level filers shall file financial
disclosure statements disclosing the following financial interests:	(a)	Any
investment, regardless of whether the business entity is located in; owns an
interest in real property within; or does, within the prior two years did, or
plans to do business in the City of Los Angeles, and the name and address of any
co-owner of the business entity.	(b)	Any interest in real property (other than a
personal residence), regardless of whether the real property is located within
the jurisdiction, and the name and address of any co-owner of such real
property.	(c)	Any income (including loans, honoraria, travel expenses, gifts,
and the filer’s community property interest in income of a spouse) regardless
of whether the source of income resides in; owns an interest in real property
located within; or does, within the prior two years did, or plans to do business
in the City of Los Angeles.	(d)	Separate property income (including loans,
honoraria, travel expenses and gifts) of a filer’s spouse from a restricted
source and income of a dependent child from a restricted source.	(e)	(Repealed
by Ord. No. 173,101, Eff. 3/27/00.)*	(e)	The name and address of each general
partner of a partnership in which the filer has an investment valued at $2,000
or more, together with the name of the partnership.  (Amended by Ord. No.
173,870, Eff. 5/14/01.)	(f)	(Para. (g) Relettered (f) by Ord. No. 173,101, Eff.
3/27/00.)*  For any investment required to be disclosed by this subsection or
any interest in real property (including both an interest required to be
disclosed by this subsection and the filer’s personal residence) that was
purchased during the reporting period:	(i)	the name of the business entity, or
the location of the real property by street address, city and state, provided,
however, that the address of the filer’s personal residence need not be
disclosed;	(ii)	the purchase price of the investment or interest in real
property (rounded to the nearest $1,000);	(iii)	the name and address of the
seller.	The filer’s initial financial disclosure statement shall disclose any
such transaction which occurred within one year prior to the filing of such
statement.	This Paragraph (f) shall not require any disclosure relating to a
transaction which occurred on a regulated trading market or stock exchange in
connection with which the identities of the purchaser and seller are unknown to
one another.  (Para. Amended by Ord. No. 173,101, Eff. 3/27/00.)*	(g)	(Para.
(h) Relettered (g) by Ord. No. 173,101, Eff. 3/27/00.)*  For any investment
required to be disclosed by this section or any interest in real property
(including both an interest required to be disclosed by this subsection and the
filer’s personal residence) that was sold during the reporting period:	(i)	the
name and address of the business entity, or the location of the real property by
street address, city and state, provided, however, that the address of the
filer’s personal residence need not be disclosed;	(ii)	the selling price of
the investment or interest in real property (rounded to the nearest
$1,000);	(iii)	the name and address of the purchaser.	This Paragraph (g) shall
not require any disclosure relating to a transaction which occurred on a
regulated trading market or stock exchange in connection with which the
identities of the purchaser and seller are unknown to one another.  (Para.
Amended by Ord. No. 173,138, Eff. 4/24/00.)*	2.	Except as otherwise provided in
this subsection, the information required to be disclosed with respect to each
financial interest, and the manner of disclosing that information, shall be the
same as required by Article 2 of Chapter 7 of the Political Reform Act of 1974,
as amended, or by the conflict of interest code of the filer’s agency.	3.	The
value of investments, interests in real property and income (including loans,
honoraria, travel expenses, spousal income and income of a dependent child)
shall be disclosed in the following amounts:	(a)	Investment and interests in
real property:	(i)	between $2,000 and $9,999, the value rounded to the nearest
thousand;  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,870, Eff. 5/14/01.)	(ii)	Between $10,000
and $99,999, the value rounded to the nearest $10,000;	(iii)	Between $100,00 and
$250,000, the value rounded to the nearest $25,000, and	(iv)	Over $250,000, the
value rounded to the nearest $50,000.
	(b)	Income (including loans, honoraria, travel expenses, spousal income and
income of a dependent child):	(i)	between $500 and $1,000;  (Amended by Ord.
No. 173,870, Eff. 5/14/01.)	(ii)	Between $1,001 and $99,999, the value rounded
to the nearest $1,000.	(iii)	At and above $100,000, the value rounded to the
nearest $10,000.	4.	The value of real property shall be disclosed pursuant to
Subdivision 3 based on the County Assessor’s assessed valuation of the
property.	5.	If an investment is listed on a securities exchange within the
United States, the filer may, instead of disclosing the dollar value, disclose
the largest number of shares of stock owned, or the highest par value of bonds
or debentures owned, during the reporting period.	6.	If the actual value of an
asset is not known by the filer, a good faith estimate based on a reasonable
inquiry shall satisfy the requirement of this subsection.  In no event shall a
filer be required to retain the services of an appraiser in order to comply with
this subsection.	D.	Disclosure Requirements For Other Filers.	1.	In addition to
statements of economic interests filed pursuant to the Political Reform Act of
1974, as amended, other filers shall file financial disclosure statements
disclosing the following financial interests:	(a)	Any disclosable
investment.	(b)	Any other investment, whether or not located within or doing
business in the City of Los Angeles, and whether or not owning an interest in
real property located within the jurisdiction, if any co-owner of the business
entity engages in any activity within the City of Los Angeles described in or
covered by the filer’s disclosure category of his or her agency’s conflict
of interest code.  The name and address of any disclosable co-owner of any such
business entity shall also be disclosed.	(c)	Any disclosable interest in real
property.	(d)	Any other interest in real property, not located within the
jurisdiction, if any co-owner of the real property, engages in any activity
within the City of Los Angeles described in or covered by the filer’s
disclosure category of his or her agency’s conflict of interest code.   The
name and address of any disclosable co-owner of any such real property shall
also be disclosed.	(e)	Any disclosable income (including loans, honoraria,
travel expenses, gifts and the filer’s community property interest in income
to a spouse).	(f)	(Repealed by Ord. No. 173,101, Eff. 3/27/00.)*	(f)	(Para. (g)
Relettered (f) by Ord. No. 173,138, Eff. 4/24/00.)*  Separate property income
(including loans, honoraria, travel expenses, and gifts) of the filer’s spouse
from a restricted source and income of a dependent child from a restricted
source, if the source of income would be a disclosable source if received
directly by the filer.  Income to a spouse or dependent child does not include
travel or reasonable subsistence expenses, paid by a spouse’s or dependent
child’s employer for employment-related travel.	(g)	The name and address of
each general partner of a partnership in which the filer has an investment
(required to be disclosed by this subsection) valued at $2,000 or more, together
with the name of the partnership.  The identity of a partner is required to be
disclosed by this subsection only if the partner engages in any activity within
the City of Los Angeles described in or covered by the filer’s disclosure
category of his or her agency’s conflict of interest code.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 173,870, Eff. 5/14/01.)	(h)	(Para. (i) Relettered (h) by Ord. No. 173,138,
Eff. 4/24/00.)*  For any investment required to be disclosed by this subsection
or any interest in real property (including both an interest required to be
disclosed by this subsection and the filer’s personal residence) that was
purchased during the reporting period from a person engaged in the City of Los
Angeles in an activity described in or covered by the disclosure category of the
filer’s conflict of interest code:	(i)	the name of the business entity, or the
location of the real property by street address, city and state, provided,
however, that the address of the filer’s personal residence need not be
disclosed;	(ii)	the purchase price of the investment or interest in real
property (rounded to the nearest $1,000);	(iii)	the name and address of the
seller.	The filer’s initial financial disclosure statement shall disclose any
such transaction which occurred within one year prior to the filing of such
statement.	This Paragraph (h) shall not require any disclosure relating to a
transaction which occurred on a regulated trading market or stock exchange in
connection with which the identities of the purchaser and seller are unknown to
one another.  (Para. Amended by Ord. No. 173,138, Eff. 4/24/00.)*	(i)	(Para.
(j) Relettered (i) by Ord. No. 173,138, Eff. 4/24/00.)*  For any investment
required to be disclosed by this subsection or any interest in real property
(including both an interest required to be disclosed by this subsection and the
filer’s personal residence) that was sold during the reporting period to a
person engaged in the City of Los Angeles in an activity described in or covered
by the disclosure category of the filer’s conflict of interest code:	(i)	the
name of the business entity, or the location of the real property by street
address, city and state, provided, however, that the address of the filer’s
personal residence need not be disclosed;	(ii)	the selling price of the
investment or interest in real property (rounded to the nearest
$1,000);	(iii)	the name and address of the purchaser.	This Paragraph (i) shall
not require any disclosure relating to a transaction which occurred on a
regulated trading market or stock exchange in connection with which the
identities of the purchaser and seller are unknown to one another. (Para.
Amended by Ord. No. 173,138, Eff. 4/24/00.)*	2.	Except as otherwise provided in
this subsection, the information and amounts required to be disclosed with
respect to each financial interest, and the manner of disclosing that
information, shall be the same as required by Article 2 of Chapter 7 of the
Political Reform Act of 1974, as amended, or by the conflict of interest code of
the filer’s agency.	3.	The value of real property shall be disclosed pursuant
to Subdivision 3 based on the County Assessor’s assessed valuation of the
property.	4.	If an investment is listed on a securities exchange within the
United States, the filer may, instead of disclosing the value, disclose the
largest number of shares of stock owned, or the highest par value of bonds or
debentures owned, during the reporting period.	5.	If the actual value of an
asset is not known by the filer, a good faith estimate based on a reasonable
inquiry, shall satisfy the requirement of this subsection.  In no event shall a
filer be required to retain the services of an appraiser in order to comply with
this subsection.	E.	Additional Disclosure Requirement Pursuant To Regulations of
the City Ethics Commission.  The City Ethics Commission may, by regulation,
require disclosure by filers of specific types of financial interests, in
addition to those interests required to be disclosed pursuant to Subsection D of
this section, if the interest could with reasonable foreseeability be affected
materially by the filer’s exercise of his or her official duties.	F.	Exception
If Disclosure Would Violate Legally Recognized Privilege.  A filer need not
disclose the name of a person who paid fees or made payments to the filer or to
a business entity in which the filer or the filer’s spouse owns an investment
if disclosure of the person’s name would violate a legally recognized
privilege under California law, such as but not limited to the attorney-client
and the physician-patient privileges.  Such person’s name may be withheld in
accordance with the rules relating to privilege applicable to disclosure under
the California Political Reform Act of 1974, as amended, and pursuant to the
procedure established by 2 California Code of Regulations Section 18740, as
amended, or by a successor regulation.	G.	Disclosure By Consultants.	1.	The City
Ethics Commission shall adopt by regulation a definition of “consultants”
who are required to file statements of economic interests.  In addition to the
disclosure requirements of the Political Reform Act, such consultants shall
identify their other clients who paid them more than $10,000 during the previous
year and shall disclose such other information that the Commission determines,
by regulation, is necessary to identify potential conflicts of interest.	2.	Each
consultant who is required to file a statement of economic interest shall be
required to attend a training program conducted or sponsored by the
Commission.	H.	On a semi-annual basis, the City Ethics Commission shall publish
a list identifying for each agency any person who, during the prior six months,
was a party to a contract with the City, was a bidder on any City contract, or
responded to a request for proposals for a contract with the City.	I.	Statements
of City Related Business.  (Added by Ord. No. 177,190, Eff. 1/23/06.)	1.	Each
person holding an elective City office, each general manager of a department of
City government, each member of a board of commissioners or any other board of
City government, whether created by ordinance or by Charter, and each appointive
officer named in the Charter, shall file Statements of City-Related Business
with the City Ethics Commission in accordance with the provisions of this
subsection.  Such person shall file a Statement of City-Related Business within
ten (10) calendar days after each occurrence of one or more of the transactions
or proceedings described in this subsection.	2.	For the purposes of this
subsection, a Statement of City-Related Business shall disclose a transaction,
or a proceeding, whether or not specifically provided for by law, wherein action
was required or requested to be taken or withheld by the City or any of its
officers or employees in their official capacity, if:	(a)	It took place during
the tenure of office of the person required to file the statement; and	(b)	It
was participated in by that person, the spouse of that person, or a business
entity in which either that person or that person’s spouse or both in any
manner held a five percent (5%) or more ownership interest; and	(c)	It
involved:	(i)	the sale of real or personal property by or to the City,
or	(ii)	the performance of services to the City pursuant to any contract,
or	(iii)	a grant, loan, or forgiveness or payment of indebtedness by or to the
City, or	(iv)	an application made to, or a grant made by, the City of any
license, certificate, permit, franchise, change of zone, variance, credential,
or any other form of benefit or relief.	3.	A Statement of City-Related Business
need not include a listing of any application where applicable law requires the
granting of the application without the exercise of judgment or discretion by an
official or employee of the City.	4.	The Statement of City-Related Business
shall be in sufficient detail as to dates, amounts, identifying numbers or
symbols, if any, locations, and subject matter to make the transactions or
proceedings listed identifiable by reference to records of the City.  It shall
be filed on a form provided by the City Ethics Commission.	5.	Each Statement
shall be supported by a written certification or declaration signed under
penalty of perjury by the person required to file, and shall become a public
record when filed.	6.	Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to require a
member of the Board of Education to file Statements of City-Related
Business.	7.	A Statement of City-Related Business filed pursuant to this
subsection shall satisfy the requirements of Section 323.1 of the City Election
Code.	J.	Recusal Notification.  (Added by Ord. No. 177,853, Eff.
10/7/06.)	1.	Each member of a City board or commission required to file
statements of economic interests pursuant to the Political Reform Act of 1974,
as amended, shall complete a “Recusal Notification Form” each time the
member recuses himself or herself in relation to an actual conflict of interests
or the appearance of a conflict of interests under any applicable law.	(a)	The
commission or board member shall submit a copy of the completed Recusal
Notification Form to the Executive Secretary for the Commission or Board (or the
person acting in that capacity) as soon as possible after the posting of the
agenda containing the item, including continued items, involving the member’s
conflict of interests.	(b)	In addition, the commission or board member shall
submit the original, completed Recusal Notification Form, along with a copy of
the meeting agenda containing the item involving the commission or board
member’s conflict of interests to the Ethics Commission no later than 15
calendar days after the date of the meeting at which the commission or board 
member recused himself or herself.	(c)	The commission or board member shall also
submit the Recusal Notification Form as described in (a) and (b) above to the
Executive Secretary and the Ethics Commission even if the commission or board
member will not be or was not present at the meeting, but would have been
required to recuse himself or herself on a matter appearing on the commission or
board agenda if the member had been present.	2.	The Recusal Notification Form
shall be prescribed by the City Ethics  Commission, but shall include at a
minimum the following:	(a)	Name of commission/board member recusing himself or
herself;	(b)	Name of the board or commission of which he or she is a
member;	(c)	The date of the meeting at which the recusal occurred or would have
occurred;	(d)	The agenda item number and brief description of the
matter;	(e)	The specific economic or other outside interest causing recusal (for
example, personal residence, client of firm, source of income, board member of
organization); and	(f)	Whether the matter concerns the making of a contract.	* 
Amendments enacted by Ord. No. 173,101 and Ord. No. 173,138 shall be applicable
to the financial disclosure statements required to be filed on April 1, 2000 and
thereafter.
