                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PROTECTION OF EMPLOYEES AGAINST RETALIATION FOR REPORTING FRAUD, WASTE OR MISUSE
OF OFFICE. (§ 49.5.4)

  PROTECTION OF EMPLOYEES AGAINST RETALIATION FOR REPORTING FRAUD, WASTE OR
MISUSE OF OFFICE.	A.	No officer or employee of the City shall use or threaten to
use any official authority or influence to discourage, restrain or interfere
with any other person for the purpose of preventing such person from acting in
good faith to report or otherwise bring to the attention of the City Ethics
Commission or other appropriate agency, office or department any information
which, if true, would constitute: a work-related violation by a City officer or
employee of any law or regulation, gross waste of City funds, gross abuse of
authority, a specified and substantial danger to public health or safety due to
an act or omission of a City official or employee, use of a City office or
position or of City resources for personal gain, or a conflict of interest of a
City officer or employee.	B.	No officer or employee of the City shall use or
threaten to use any official authority or influence to effect any action as a
reprisal against a City officer or employee who reports or otherwise brings to
the attention of the Commission or other appropriate agency, office or
department any information regarding the subjects described in Subsection
A.	C.	Any person who believes that he or she has been subjected to any action
prohibited by this section may file a confidential complaint with the City
Ethics Commission.  The City Ethics Commission shall thereupon investigate the
complaint.  Upon the conclusion of its investigation, the Commission shall take
appropriate action as otherwise provided by law.   (Amended by Ord. No.
168,708, Eff. 5/13/93.)	D.	In the event the Executive Officer of the City Ethics
Commission determines the Commission has a conflict of interest in an
investigation of a retaliation complaint, City Ethics Commission staff shall
refer the investigation of the retaliation complaint to the Equal Employment
Opportunities Section of the Human Resources and Benefits Division of the City
Personnel Department.  That agency shall report its findings to the City
Attorney who shall take appropriate action as otherwise provided by law. 
(Added by Ord. No. 168,708, Eff. 5/13/93.)
