                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEFINITIONS. (§ 49.5.2)

  DEFINITIONS.	The following terms used in this article shall have the meanings
set forth below. Except as otherwise provided herein, the terms and provisions
of this article shall have the meanings and shall be interpreted in accordance
with the applicable definitions and provisions of the Political Reform Act of
1974, as amended (Government Code Section 81000, et seq.) and the regulations of
the California Fair Political Practices Commission, as
amended.	“Administrative action” means the proposal, drafting, development,
consideration, amendment, enactment or defeat by any City agency of any matter,
including any rule, regulation or other action in any regulatory proceeding or
any proceeding involving a contract, license, permit, franchise, or entitlement
for use, whether quasi-legislative or quasi-judicial. Administrative action does
not include any action which is solely ministerial.	“Agency” means the City
of Los Angeles or any department, bureau, office, board, commission, other
agency of the City, or any other government agency, required to adopt a conflict
of interest code subject to City Council approval.  With respect to employees
of a Councilmember’s staff and employees of the Chief Legislative Analyst’s
office, “agency” means the City Council.  (Amended by Ord. No. 167,949,
Eff. 7/5/92.)	“Attempting to influence” means promoting, supporting,
opposing or seeking to modify or delay any action on municipal legislation (as
defined in Section 48.02 of this Code) by any means, including but not limited
to providing or using persuasion, information, statistics, analyses or
studies.  (Added by Ord No. 172,891, Eff. 12/11/99.)	“City official” means
any elective City officer, member, officer, employee, commissioner or consultant
of any  agency required to adopt a conflict of interest code  subject to City
Council approval, and who is required to file statements of economic interests
pursuant to the conflict of interest code of his or her agency.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 167,949, Eff. 7/5/92.)	“Compensation” means the receipt of any
monetary or non-monetary payment and includes, but is not limited to, salary,
wages, fees, partnership or other similar financial interest, or any other
payment or reimbursement for the services or time of the person.  (Added by Ord
No. 172,891, Eff. 12/11/99.)	“Confidential information” means information to
which all of the following apply:	(1)	At the time of the use or disclosure of
the information, the information is not a public record subject to disclosure
under the California Public Records Act.	(2)	At the time of the use or
disclosure of the information, the disclosure is prohibited by  (i)  a
statute, regulation, or rule which applies to the agency in which the officer or
employee serves; or  (ii)  any limitation placed on outside employment
pursuant to Section 49.5.11 of this Code.	(3)	The use of disclosure of the
information will have, or could reasonably be expected to have, a material
financial effect on any investment or interest in real property which the
officer or employee, or any person who provides pecuniary gain to the officer or
employee in return for the information, has at the time of the use or disclosure
of the information or acquires within 90 days following the use or disclosure of
the information.	“Contract” means without limitation any agreement, lease,
right of entry, franchise, or concession, including but not limited to
agreements for the performance of any work or the rendition of any service or
the provision of any materials, equipment or supplies to the City of Los Angeles
or to the public, which is let, awarded or entered into with, or on behalf of,
the City of Los Angeles by the City Council, any board or commission, office or
department and shall include departments which have control of their own
funds.  (Added by Ord. No. 176,824, Eff. 8/27/05.)	“Co-owner”  (Added by
Ord. No. 167,949, Eff. 7/5/92.)  means a person who resides in, does business
in, plans to do business in or owns an interest in real property located within
the City of Los Angeles, and either:	(1)	possesses a 10 percent or greater
ownership, security, or leasehold interest in real property in which a filer
also possesses an interest, or	(2)	possesses a 10 percent or greater investment
in a business entity in which a filer also owns an investment.	A “co-owner”
does not include:	(1)	any member of the official’s immediate family or	(2)	any
commercial lending institution which made a loan in the lender’s regular
course of business on terms available to members of the public without regard to
official status.	“Dependent child”  (Added by Ord. No. 167,949, Eff.
7/5/92.)  means a child who is either:	(1)	unmarried, under the age of 21 and
living in the same household as the filer or	(2)	otherwise listed as a dependent
of the filer for federal income tax purposes.	“Direct Communication” means
appearing as a witness before, talking to (either by telephone or in person),
corresponding with (including sending electronic mail to), or answering
questions or inquiries from, any City official or employee, either personally or
through an agent.  (Added by Ord No. 172,891, Eff. 12/11/99.)	“Disclosable”
means an investment, interest in real property, source of income, gift, loan,
honorarium or travel expenses, or business position, which the filer is required
to disclose pursuant to Article 2 of Chapter 7 of the Political Reform Act of
1974, as amended, or pursuant to the conflict of interest code of the filer’s
agency.  (Added by Ord. No. 167,949, Eff. 7/5/92.)	“Doing Business with the
City” means entering into or performing pursuant to a contract with the City
of Los Angeles, an agency of the City or another local government agency
required to adopt a conflict of interest code subject to City Council
approval.  Doing business with the City includes entering into or performing
contracts for goods, equipment, services or financial assistance but does not
include the receipt of or payment for services normally rendered by the City to
residents and businesses such as sewer service, water and power, street
maintenance and the like.  (Amended by Ord. No. 168,056, Eff.
8/8/92.)	“Elective City officer” means any person who is a City Council
Member, City Attorney, Controller or Mayor, whether appointed or
elected.	“Foreign Gift” means a gift from an individual domiciled in a
foreign country, a foreign government, or a business entity or other entity
having its principal place of business located in a foreign country, which gift
is accepted by a City official either while that official is traveling abroad or
from the donor while that donor is visiting the United States.  A foreign gift
includes	(1)	an otherwise qualifying gift of food, beverages or customary
business entertainment cumulatively valued at no more than $250 during any
calendar year accepted by an official during the course and scope of official
business and	(2)	an otherwise qualifying gift which is accepted by the official
on behalf of the City of Los Angeles and which gift is transmitted to and
becomes the property of the City.  A foreign gift does not include a gift from
any corporation organized under the laws of the United States, or under the laws
of any state or territory of the United States.  (Added by Ord. No. 168,056,
Eff. 8/8/92.)	“Gift” means, except as otherwise provided in this definition,
any payment to the extent that consideration of equal or greater value is not
received and includes a rebate or discount in the price of anything of value
unless the rebate or discount is made in the regular course of business to
members of the public without regard to official status. Any person, other than
a defendant in a criminal action, who claims that a payment is not a gift by
reason of receipt of consideration has the burden of proving that the
consideration received is of equal or greater value. The term “gift” does
not include:	(1)	Informational material such as books, reports, pamphlets,
calendars, periodicals, seminars, or informational conferences, exclusively for
official or office use and valued at less than $250 (except that such dollar
limit does not apply to informational material received from a government
agency).  No payment for travel or reimbursement of any expenses shall be
deemed “informational material.”  (Amended by Ord. No. 168,056, Eff.
8/8/92.)	(2)	Gifts which are not used and which, within 30 days after receipt,
are returned to the donor or delivered to a charitable organization without
being claimed as a charitable contribution for tax purposes.	(3)	Gifts from an
individual’s spouse, child, parent, grandparent, grandchild, brother, sister,
parent-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, partner in a bona fide dating
relationship, nephew, niece, aunt, uncle, or first cousin, or the spouse of any
such person; provided that a gift from any such person shall be considered a
gift if the donor is acting as an agent or intermediary for any person not
covered by this paragraph.	(4)	Campaign contributions required to be reported
under Chapter 4 of the Political Reform Act of 1974, as amended.	(5)	Any devise
or inheritance.	(6)	Personalized plaques and trophies with an individual value
of less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250).	(7)	Gifts of food, beverages or
occasional lodging provided in an individual’s home.  (Added by Ord. No.
168,056, Eff. 8/8/92.)	(8)	Gifts valued at no more than $100 from an individual
to a City official or to a member of the official’s immediate family in
connection with a non-recurring ceremonial occasion.  (Added by Ord. No.
168,056, Eff. 8/8/92.)	“High Level Filer” means the Mayor, City Attorney,
Controller, member of the City Council, member of the City Ethics Commission and
Executive Officer of the City Ethics Commission.  (Added by Ord. No. 167,949,
Eff. 7/5/92.)	“High Level Official” means the Mayor, the City Attorney, the
Controller, the members of the City Council, the Chief of Staff to the Mayor,
the Assistant Chief of Staff to the Mayor, each Deputy Mayor, the Special
Assistant to the Mayor for Legal Affairs, the Executive Assistant City Attorney,
each Chief Assistant City Attorney, each Senior Counsel, the Chief Deputy
Controller, the Administrative Coordinator to the Controller, two members of the
staff of each City Council Office possessing the most decision-making
responsibilities relative to governmental policy as designated by each member of
the Council, the members of the City Ethics Commission, the Executive Officer of
the City Ethics Commission, the members of the City Planning Commission, the
Director of Planning, the members of the Board of Public Works, the Director of
the Office of Administrative and Research Services, each Assistant Director of
the Office of Administrative and Research Services, the Chief Legislative
Analyst, each Assistant Chief Legislative Analyst, the Treasurer, and the City
Clerk.  In addition, “high level official” means any other member of the
staff of an elected City officer possessing significant decision-making
responsibilities relative to governmental policy as may be designated in writing
to the City Ethics Commission by the elected City officer.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 173,363, Eff. 7/29/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)	“Honorarium” means a payment for
speaking at any event, participating in a panel or seminar or engaging in any
similar activity. An “honorarium” does not include free admission, food,
beverages and similar nominal benefits provided to an officer or employee of the
City at an event at which he or she speaks, participates in a panel or seminar
or performed a similar service, nor does it include reimbursement or advances
for actual intrastate travel or for necessary accommodations provided directly
in connection with the event.	“Legislative action” means the drafting,
introduction, consideration, modification, enactment, or defeat of any
ordinance, charter amendment, resolution, amendment, report, nomination or other
matter by the City Council or by any committee, subcommittee thereof, or by a
member or employee of the City Council acting in his or her official capacity.
“Legislative action” also means the action of the Mayor in approving or
vetoing any ordinance or resolution.	“License, permit or other entitlement for
use” means any business, professional, trade or land use license or permit,
any other entitlement for use, (including all entitlement for land use), any
contract (other than labor, personal employment, or competitively bid
contracts), and any franchise.	“Lobbying Firm” means any business entity,
including an individual contract lobbyist, which meets either of the following
criteria:	(a)	the business entity received or becomes entitled to receive any
compensation, other than reimbursement for reasonable travel expenses, for the
purpose of influencing legislative or administrative action on behalf of any
other person; and any partner, owner, officer, or employee of the business
entity is a lobbyist; or	(b)	the business entity receives or becomes entitled to
receive any compensation, other than reimbursement for reasonable travel
expenses, to communicate directly with any elective city officer, agency
official, or legislative official for the purpose of influencing legislative or
administrative action on behalf of any other person.	“Lobbyist” means any
individual who is required to register as a lobbyist or municipal legislative
advocate pursuant to any City ordinance requiring such registration.	“Lobbyist
employer” means any person, other than a lobbying firm, who:	(a)	Employs one
or more lobbyists for economic consideration, other than reimbursement for
reasonable travel expenses, for the purpose of influencing legislative or
administrative action, or	(b)	Contracts for the services of a lobbying firm for
economic consideration, other than reimbursement for reasonable travel expense,
for the purpose of influencing legislative or administrative
action.	“Participant” means any person who is not a party but who actively
supports or opposes a particular decision in a proceeding involving a license,
permit, or other entitlement for use and who has a financial interest in the
decision, as described in Article 1 (commencing with Section 87100) of Chapter 7
of the Political Reform Act of 1974, as amended. A person actively supports or
opposes a particular decision in a proceeding if he or she lobbies in person the
officers or employees of the agency, testifies in person before the agency, or
otherwise acts to influence officers of the agency.	“Party” means any person
who files an application for, or is the subject of, a proceeding involving a
license, permit, or other entitlement for use.	“Pecuniary Gain” means any
monetary benefit to a person or to a member of the person’s immediate
family.	“Person” means an individual, proprietorship, firm, partnership,
joint venture, syndicate, business trust, company, corporation, association,
committee, or any other organization or group of persons acting in
concert.	“Proceeding involving a license, permit or other entitlement for
use” includes any proceeding to grant, deny, revoke, restrict, or modify a
license, permit or other entitlement for use.	“Restricted source”  (Amended
by Ord. No. 168,056, Eff. 8/8/92.)  means the following with regard to each of
the following classes of City officials:	(1)	With regard to “high level
filers” and “high level officials,” “restricted source” means:	(a)	a
lobbyist, lobbying firm, or lobbyist employer;	(b)	a person doing or seeking to
do business with the City;	(c)	a person who, during the reporting period,
knowingly attempt to influence the official in any legislative or administrative
action which would have a direct material financial effect on such person;
or	(d)	a person who is a party to a proceeding involving a license, permit or
other entitlement for use while a proceeding involving such matter is, or within
the prior nine months was, pending before the official or before the City
Council or a board, commission, committee, or other similar body of which the
official is a voting member, and for nine months following the date a final
decision is rendered in the proceeding.	(2)	With regard to filers other than
“high level filers” and with regard to officials other than “high level
officials,” “restricted source” means:	(a)	a lobbyist, lobbying firm, or
lobbyist employer, seeking to influence decisions of the filer’s agency;	(b)	a
person doing or seeking to do business with the filer’s agency;	(c)	a person
who, during the reporting period, knowingly attempted to influence the official
in any legislative or administrative action which would have a direct material
financial effect on such person;	(d)	or a person who is a party to a proceeding
involving a license, permit or other entitlement for use while a proceeding
involving such matter is, or within the prior nine months was, pending before
the official or before a board, commission, committee or other similar body of
which the official is a voting member, and for nine months following the date a
final decision is rendered in the proceeding.	(3)	With regard to all filers and
all City officials, a “restricted source” does not include an individual
(other than a lobbyist) who is employed by a restricted source, provided that
the gift or income is neither paid for by the employer nor provided at the
direction of the employer.
