                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

RESTRICTIONS ON HONORARIA AND OUTSIDE EARNED INCOME. (§ 49.5.9)

  RESTRICTIONS ON HONORARIA AND OUTSIDE EARNED INCOME.
	(Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 168,056, Eff. 8/8/92.)	A.	Prohibition of
Outside Earned Income – Elected City Officers.  Pursuant to Charter Section
218, the Mayor, City Attorney, Controller, and members of the City Council shall
not receive any compensation, including honoraria, for their services other than
that provided for by Charter Section 218, except that which may be provided for
their serving on governmental entities where payment is authorized for other
governmental officers or employees serving in such capacity.  (Charter Section
No. Amended by Ord. No. 172,942, Eff. 1/21/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)	B.	Restrictions on
Honoraria and Other Outside Earned Income – Other Full Time City Officials and
Employees.	1.	Except as provided in Subsection A of this section, no full time
City official shall accept any honoraria or other outside earned income without
the prior written approval of the general manager or other chief administrative
officer of his or her department, and, in the case of a source of income which
the general manager or other chief administrative officer determines is a
restricted source for that official, without the prior written approval of the
City Ethics Commission.	2.	The approval required by Subdivision 1 of this
subsection shall be denied if the general manager, other chief administrative
officer or City Ethics Commission determines that the receipt of the income
would be inconsistent, incompatible, in conflict with or inimical to the City
official’s official duties, functions or responsibilities.  In so
determining, the general manager, other chief administrative officer and City
Ethics Commission shall consider whether one or more of the following factors is
applicable:	(a)	Whether the payment or the services for which the payment would
be received creates the appearance of or involves actual use of public office or
employment or the time, facilities, equipment or supplies of the official’s
agency, for private gain;	(b)	Whether the payment or services for which the
payment would be received involves the acceptance by the official of any money
or other consideration from anyone other than his or her agency for the
performance of an act which the official, if not performing such act for the
outside source of income, would be required or expected to render in the regular
course or hours of his or her duties as a City official;	(c)	Whether the City
official is in a position to make, to participate in making, or to influence a
potential governmental decision that could foreseeably have a material financial
effect on the source of income;	(d)	Whether the payment or services for which
the payment would be received involves the performance of any act in other than
an official capacity which may later be subject, directly or indirectly, to the
control, inspection, review, audit or enforcement of any other official of his
or her agency;	(e)	Whether the services involve such time demands that would
render the official’s performance or his or her official duties less
efficient.	3.	A request to the City Ethics Commission for approval pursuant to
this subsection shall be treated as a request for written advice.	4.	In the case
of a request for approval by a member of the Board of Public Works or by any
general manager or other chief administrative officer of any agency, the request
shall be made to his or her appointing authority and, if required by Subdivision
1, to the City Ethics Commission.  In the case of a request for approval by an
employee of the office of a member of the City Council, the request shall be
made to that member of the City Council and, if required by Subdivision 1, to
the City Ethics Commission.
