                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

LOBBYING ACTIVITIES OF CURRENT AND FORMER CITY OFFICIALS. (§ 49.5.11)

  LOBBYING ACTIVITIES OF CURRENT AND FORMER CITY OFFICIALS.
	(Title and Section Amended by Ord No. 172,891, Eff. 12/11/99; Title Amended by
Ord. No. 176,823, Eff. 8/27/05.)	A.	No former City official or employee of any
agency (as defined in Section 49.5.2) who personally and substantially
participated in a decision, proceeding, claim, contract, legislation or other
specific matter during his or her City service, shall, for compensation, attempt
to influence any action on that specific matter on behalf of any person other
than an agency.  This prohibition applies only if the specific matter is still
pending before an agency or if an agency is a party to or has a direct or
substantial interest in the specific matter.  For purposes of this section,
“personal and substantial” participation includes, but is not limited to,
making or voting on a decision or making a recommendation, rendering advice,
investigation or conducting research.	B.	No former City official or agency
employee shall, for compensation, knowingly counsel or assist any other person
other than an agency (as defined in Section 49.5.2) in connection with an
appearance or communication in which the former official or employee is
prohibited from engaging pursuant to Subsection A.	C.	The prohibitions contained
in Subsections A and B shall not apply:	1.	To prevent a former City official or
agency employee from making or providing a statement, based on the former
official’s or employee’s own special knowledge in the particular area that
is the subject of the statement, provided that no compensation is thereby
received other than that regularly provided for by law or regulation for
witnesses.	2.	To communications made solely for the purpose of furnishing
information by a former City official or agency employee if the court or agency
to which the communication is directed makes written findings that:	(a)	The
former official or employee has outstanding and otherwise unavailable
qualifications;	(b)	The former official or employee is acting with respect to a
particular matter which requires such qualifications; and	(c)	The public
interest would be served by the participation of the former official or
employee.	3.	With respect to appearances or communications in a proceeding in
which a court or agency has issued a final order, decree, decision or judgment
but has retained jurisdiction, if the agency of former employment gives its
consent by determining that:	(a)	At least five years has elapsed since the
termination of the former official’s or employee’s employment or term of
office; and	(b)	the public interest would not be harmed.	D.	For two years after
leaving City service, no former elected City officer who left City service on or
after January 1, 2007 shall, for compensation, engage in direct communication
with any agency for the purpose of attempting to influence any action or
decision on any matter pending before an agency on behalf of any person other
than an agency.  For one year after leaving City service, no other former
elected City officer, member of the City Ethics Commission or other former high
level official shall, for compensation, engage in direct communication with any
agency for the purpose of attempting to influence any action or decision on any
matter pending before an agency on behalf of any person other than an agency. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 178,064, Eff. 1/15/07.)	E.	For one year after leaving City
service, no former City official shall for compensation, engage in direct
communication with any agency in which he or she served during the twelve month
period preceding his or her departure from City service, for the purpose of
attempting to influence any action or decision on any matter pending before that
agency on behalf of any person other than an agency.  For purposes of this
subsection, the agency of a City Council office employee means his or her former
Council office and the Council member of that district.	F.	For purposes of this
section, a decision does not include any ministerial action.  A ministerial
action is one that does not require a City official or employee to exercise
discretion concerning any outcome or course of action.	G.	Upon the petition of
any interested person or party, a court or the presiding or other officer,
including but not limited to any hearing officer, in any judicial,
quasi-judicial or other proceeding, may, after notice and an opportunity for a
hearing, exclude any person found to be in violation of this section from
further participation, or from assisting or counseling any other participant, in
the proceeding then pending before such court or presiding or other
officer.	H.	No provision contained in this section shall prevent any former City
official from representing solely himself or herself, or any member of his or
her immediate family, in their individual capacities, in connection with any
matter pending before an agency.	I.	This section shall not apply to the
activities of any former City official or employee who is an elected or
appointed officer or employee of any city, county, district,
multi-jurisdictional, state or federal government agency, when that former City
official or employee is solely representing that agency in his or her official
capacity as an officer or employee of the agency.	J.	No member of a board or
commission of the City shall, for compensation, communicate directly, either
personally or through his or her agent(s) at the member’s behest, with any
City official for the purpose of attempting to influence action on municipal
legislation on behalf of any other person.  For the purposes of the subsection,
“municipal legislation” shall have the meaning set forth in Section 48.02 of
this Code.  This subsection is applicable only to members of those boards and
commission of the City who are required to file statements of economic interests
pursuant to the Political Reform Act of 1974, as amended.  Nothing in this
subsection shall prohibit a member of a City board or commission from appearing
before any City agency in the same manner as any other member of the general
public solely to represent himself or herself on a matter related to his or her
personal interests.  (Added by Ord. No. 176,823, Eff. 8/27/05.)
