                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

TITLE, FINDINGS AND PURPOSES. (§ 49.5.1)

  TITLE, FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.

	A.	Title.  This article shall be known as the City of Los Angeles Governmental
Ethics Ordinance.

	B.	Findings.  The following findings are adopted in conjunction with the
enactment of this article:

	1.	As one of the great international cities of the world, Los Angeles will
continue to confront great and complex opportunities and problems of both local
and global significance.

	2.	One of the best ways to attract talented people to public service is to
assure that the government is respected for its honesty and integrity; that its
decisions are made on the merits, untainted by any consideration of private
gain; and that the rules governing their conduct during and after leaving
government service are as clear and complete as possible.

	3.	A governmental ethics ordinance that is as clear, tough, fair, comprehensive
and effective as any in the nation is therefore needed.

	C.	Purposes.  This article is adopted to accomplish the following purposes.

	1.	To assure that individuals and interest groups in our society have a fair
and equal opportunity to participate in the governmental process.

	2.	To assure that the governmental process itself promotes fairness and equity
for all residents of the City regardless of race, color, creed, religion,
national origin, age, sex, marital status, sexual orientation or disability.

	3.	To require elected City officers and key City officials to disclose all
investments, interests in real property and income in order to prevent conflicts
of interest.

	4.	To prevent elected City officers and key City officials from receiving
outside earned income that creates a potential conflict of interest.

	5.	To prevent certain City officials from lobbying the City for at least one
year after they leave City service.

	6.	To increase understanding of the City Charter, ordinances and the roles of
elected City officers and other public officials, City agencies and the City
election process.

	7.	To help restore public trust in governmental and electoral institutions.

	8.	To assure that this article is vigorously enforced.
