                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

EFFECT OF CAMPAIGN MONEY LAUNDERING VIOLATION ON CONTRACTS AND FEE WAIVERS. (§
49.5.21)

  EFFECT OF CAMPAIGN MONEY LAUNDERING VIOLATION ON CONTRACTS AND FEE WAIVERS.
	(New Sec. 49.5.21 Added by Ord. No. 171,142, Eff.
8/3/96.)	A.	Applicability.	1.	This section is applicable if the City Ethics
Commission makes a finding that a person has laundered campaign funds in
violation of Charter Section 470(k), and that finding is made after an
administrative enforcement hearing pursuant to Charter Section 706 or as a
result of a stipulation between the person committing the violation and the City
Ethics Commission.  (Charter Section Nos. Amended by Ord. No. 172,942, Eff.
1/21/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)	2.	This section is applicable to the following contracts
awarded or fees waived by the City Council or by any City agency, excluding the
following proprietary City departments: Airports, City Employees Retirement
System, Harbor, Library, Pensions, Recreation and Parks, and Water and
Power:	(a)	all contracts for personal services, and to all other contracts
involving a contract price in an amount of $1,000 or more;	(b)	all discretionary
fee waivers of $1,000 or more.	3.	This section is applicable only to violations
committed after the effective date of the ordinance adding this
section.	B.	Competitively Bid Contracts.	l.	Prior to awarding any contract which
is required to be awarded to the lowest responsible bidder, the City Council or
other City board, commission or officer charged with the duty to award the
contract (the awarding authority) shall determine whether, the lowest monetary
bidder has been found to have committed the violation as specified in Subsection
A.1. above within the previous four years.	2.	The awarding authority shall not
award the contract to the lowest monetary bidder, if, following a hearing as
described in Subdivision 3. below, it finds that, as a result of the violation,
the awarding authority believes that the bidder lacks integrity such that it is
unfit to perform the work specified in the contract.  The awarding authority
shall make that finding unless there are specific facts brought to its
attention, in writing, which indicate otherwise.  On that basis, the awarding
authority shall deem the bidder to be not responsible.	3.	Prior to making a
finding that a bidder is not responsible as set forth in Subdivision 2., the
awarding authority shall notify the bidder of its intention to consider making
such a finding.  The awarding authority shall offer the bidder an opportunity
to present evidence and argument that, despite the bidder having been found to
have violated the City law prohibiting the laundering of campaign funds, the
awarding authority should not have reason to question the bidder’s integrity
and fitness to perform the contract.  If the bidder desires to present such
evidence and/or argument to the awarding authority, the awarding authority shall
hold an informal hearing.  At that hearing the bidder shall be allowed to make
a presentation.  After having considered the bidder’s presentation, and the
presentations of any other interested parties, the awarding authority may make
the finding set forth in Subdivision 2. if it is satisfied that such a finding
is merited.	C.	Contracts Awarded on a Basis Other Than Competitive Bidding. 
The City Council or other City board, commission or officer charged with the
duty to award a contract shall not approve any contract on behalf of the City,
other than a contract required to be awarded to the lowest responsible bidder,
with any party, if the party has been found to have committed the violation as
specified in Subsection A.1. above within the previous four years.	D.	Fee
Waivers.  The City Council or other City board, commission or officer shall not
grant any discretionary waiver of more than $1,000 of any City fee for any
person, if the person has been found to have committed the violation as
specified in Subsection A.1. above within the previous four years.	E.	Notice of
Violations.	1.	The City Ethics Commission shall provide a copy of every
Commission enforcement decision relating to a violation as specified in
Subsection A.1., together with a copy of any stipulation filed in the case, to
the general manager or other head of each City agency to which this section
applies.	2.	A person who submits a bid or proposal in connection with any
contract or a request for fee waiver with a City agency to which this section
applies shall include with the bid, contract proposal or fee waiver documents a
copy of the Commission’s decision of violation as specified in Subsection A.1.
made within the previous four years, together with a copy of any stipulation
filed in connection therewith.	3.	With respect to a decision on a contract or
fee waiver considered by the City Council, the City Clerk shall submit a report
which contains sufficient information to allow the body to comply with the
requirements of those provisions.	4.	With respect to a decision on a contract or
fee waiver considered by a City board or commission, the agency staff shall
submit a report which contains sufficient information to allow the body to
comply with the requirements of those provisions.	F.	Time Period of Prohibitions
and Notification.  If the City Ethics Commission makes a finding that the
contracting party has either	(1)	accepted responsibility for the violation in
the form of having entered into a stipulation with the City Ethics Commission in
which the party admits the violation, or otherwise exhibits evidence of having
accepted such responsibility, or	(2)	mitigated the wrongdoing by taking prompt
remedial or corrective action, then the City Ethics Commission may reduce the
time period during which the above prohibitions and notification requirements
would apply to a period of not less than one year.  Any person who has been
found by the City Ethics Commission to have violated Charter Section 470(k) may
request such a finding from the Commission.  (Charter Section No. Amended by
Ord. No. 172,942, Eff. 1/21/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)	G.	Waiver of Provisions.  The
City Council by a two- thirds vote of its entire membership may waive any or all
of the prohibitions contained in this section if the Council makes a written
finding that an overriding public policy consideration justifies entering into
the contract or waiving the fee despite the prohibition contained in this
section.  The finding shall set forth the nature of the overriding public
policy consideration and the reason why that consideration justifies the waiver
of the prohibition and shall be made only when the waiver is justified by a
significant community or financial benefit to the City or if it is necessary to
preserve the health, safety or welfare of the public.
