                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ENFORCEMENT. (§ 49.5.19)

  ENFORCEMENT.
	(First Para. Repealed by Ord. No. 170,538, Eff. 7/13/95.)	A.	Criminal 	1.	Any
person who knowingly or willfully violates any provision of this article is
guilty of a misdemeanor. Any person who knowingly or willfully causes any other
person to violate any provision of this article, or who aids and abets any other
person in the violation of any provision of this article, shall be liable under
the provisions of this section.	2.	Prosecution of violation of any provision of
the article shall be commenced within four years after the date of the
violation.	3.	No person convicted of a misdemeanor under this article shall act
as a lobbyist or as a City contractor for a period of four years following the
date of the conviction unless the court at the time of sentencing specifically
determines that this provision shall not be applicable.	4.	For the purposes of
this section, a plea of nolo contendere shall be deemed a conviction.	B.	Civil
Actions.	1.	Any person who intentionally or negligently violates any provision
of this article shall be liable in a civil action brought by the City Attorney,
the City Ethics Commission or by any person residing within the City for an
amount not more $5,000 per violation, or for more than three times the amount
the person failed to report properly or unlawfully contributed, expended, gave
or received, whichever is greater.	2.	If two or more persons are responsible for
any violation, they shall be jointly and severally liable.	3.	Any person, other
than the City Attorney, before filing a civil action pursuant to this
subsection, shall first file with the City Ethics Commission a written request
for the Commission to commence the action. The request shall contain a statement
of the grounds for believing a cause of action exists. The Commission shall
respond within 40 days after receipt of the request indicating whether it
intends to file a civil action. If the Commission indicates in the affirmative
and files an action within forty days thereafter, no other action may be brought
unless the action brought by the Commission is dismissed without
prejudice.	4.	In determining the amount of liability, the court may take into
account the seriousness of the violation and the degree of culpability of the
defendant. If a judgment is entered against the defendant or defendants in an
action, a private plaintiff shall receive fifty percent (50%) of the amount
recovered. The remaining fifty percent shall be deposited into the City’s
General Fund. In an action brought by the City Attorney or the Commission, the
entire amount shall be paid to the General Fund.	5.	No action alleging a
violation of this article may be filed more than four years after the date the
violation occurred.	C.	Injunctive Relief.  Any person residing within the City
of Los Angeles including the City Attorney, may sue for injunctive relief to
enjoin violations or to compel compliance with the provisions of this
article.	D.	Costs of Litigation.  The court may award to a party, other than an
agency, who prevails in any civil action authorized by this article, his or her
costs of litigation, including reasonable attorneys’ fees. If the costs or
fees are awarded against the City, the payment of such award shall be the
responsibility of the City.	E.	Limitation of Actions.  No civil action alleging
a violation of this article shall be filed more than four years after the date
of the violation.  (Amended by Ord. No. 170,538, Eff. 7/13/95.)
 	F.	Discipline.  Any appointed officer or employee who violates any provision
of this article shall be subject to administrative discipline by his or her
appointing authority.  Such discipline shall be administered in accordance with
procedures, prescribed by law or established by City policy, applicable to the
officer or employee.  (Former Subsec. F. Repealed, Former Subsec. G.
Redesignated as new Subsec. F. by Ord. No. 172,942, Eff. 1/21/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)
 	G.	Enforcement of Community Redevelopment Agency and Housing Authority Ethics
Regulations.  (Added by Ord. No. 175, 877, Eff. 5/5/04.)	1.	In the event that
the Community Redevelopment Agency of the City of Los Angeles and/or the Housing
Authority of the City of Los Angeles adopt governmental ethics regulations
governing the conduct of their officers and employees and former officers and
employees, violations of those regulations shall be subject to the civil
enforcement proceedings set forth in Subsections B through E of this section and
to the administrative enforcement provisions of Charter Section 706.	2.	The City
Ethics Commission is authorized to conduct administrative enforcement
investigations and proceedings and to impose administrative penalties and orders
for violations of governmental ethics regulations adopted by the Community
Redevelopment Agency of the City of Los Angeles and/or the Housing Authority of
the City of Los Angeles.  Those proceedings shall be governed by the City
Ethics Commission’s enforcement regulations contained in Section 24.21 of the
Los Angeles Administrative Code, as amended.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,362,
Eff. 1/30/13.)	3.	Any officer or employee of the Community Redevelopment Agency
or the Housing Authority who violates any provision of the governmental ethics
regulations adopted by those agencies shall be subject to administrative
discipline by his or her appointing authority.  That discipline shall be
administered in accordance with procedures, prescribed by law or established by
agency policy, applicable to the officers or employees.
