                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PARTICIPATION OF ELECTIVE CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES IN GOVERNMENTAL DECISIONS.
(§ 49.5.13)

  PARTICIPATION OF ELECTIVE CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES IN GOVERNMENTAL
DECISIONS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 175,344, Eff. 8/16/03.*)	A.	In addition to the
requirements of Government Code Section 87100, et seq., no officer or employee
of the City shall knowingly make, participate in making, or attempt to use his
or her official position to influence any governmental decision directly
relating to any contract where the City official knows or has reason to know
that any party to the contract is a person by whom the City official was
employed immediately prior to entering government service within 12 months prior
to the time the official acts on the matter.	B.	Any person that meets either of
the criteria set forth in Subdivisions 1. and 2. below and that makes one or
more payments in the aggregate amounts set forth in Subsection C. for
independent expenditures or non-behested member communications to support the
candidacy of an individual who is thereafter elected or reelected to an elective
City office shall file a report with the City Ethics Commission, disclosing the
information set forth after each of the criteria:	1.	The person is directly
involved in a decision before an elected City officer, and within 12 months
prior to the decision, the person made one or more independent expenditures or
one or more payments for member communications in support of that officer at the
time the officer was campaigning for election or reelection to any
office.	(a)	The person shall disclose the filer’s name, address and telephone
number; the elected City official in support of whom the payment was made; the
date(s) and amount(s) of the payment(s); the identity of the matter on which the
decision is made; and the date on which the person became directly involved in
the decision.	(b)	The provisions of 2 Cal. Code Regs. § 18704.1(a)(1) and (2)
shall govern when a person is “directly involved” in a decision before an
elected City official within the meaning of this section.	(c)	Disclosure shall
be made within 48 hours after the person making the expenditure (i) becomes
directly involved in a decision that will or may come before the elected City
officer in whose support the payment was made and (ii) makes the
expenditure.	2.	The person, or any other person acting on behalf of the person,
attempts to influence an elected City officer with respect to any matter of
municipal legislation as defined by Section 48.02 of this Code, and within 12
months prior to the decision, the person made one or more independent
expenditures or one or more payments for member communications in support of
that officer at the time the officer was campaigning for election or reelection
to any office.	(a)	The person shall disclose the filer’s name, address and
telephone number; the elected City official in support of whom the payment(s)
was (were) made; the date(s) and amount(s) of the payment(s); the identity of
the municipal legislation; whether the person attempted to influence the officer
directly or through another person, and, if the latter, the name and address of
the other person; and the date(s) of the attempt(s) to influence.	(b)	Disclosure
shall be made within 48 hours after each attempt to influence.	C.	The following
are the aggregate amounts triggering the disclosure required by Subsection
B.:	1.	$100,000 or more in the case of a Mayoral candidate in a primary or
general election;	2.	$50,000 or more in the case of a City Attorney or
Controller candidate in a primary or general election; and	3.	$25,000 or more in
the case of a City Council candidate in a primary or general election.	D.	For
purposes of this section, a payment is deemed to be made for an expenditure
supporting an elected City officer if the person making the payment is required
to disclose that fact pursuant to Section 49.7.31 of this Code.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 182,362, Eff. 1/30/13.)	E.	The disclosures required by this section
shall be made on a form provided by the Commission, shall be verified under
penalty of perjury and shall be filed by fax, certified mail, or hand delivery
to the Commission.
