                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

RESTRICTIONS ON GIFTS AND TRAVEL EXPENSES. (§ 49.5.10)

  RESTRICTIONS ON GIFTS AND TRAVEL EXPENSES.
	(Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 168,056, Eff. 8/8/92.)	A.	Restriction on
Gifts.	1.	No person shall offer or make, and no City official shall solicit or
accept, any gift with the intent that the City official will be influenced
thereby in the performance of any official act.	2.	No City official shall
knowingly solicit any gift from a restricted source.	3.	Except in the case of a
lobbyist or lobbying firm, no person who is a restricted source shall offer or
make, and no City official shall accept, any gift from a restricted source which
would cause the cumulative amount of gifts from such source to the City official
to exceed $100 during any calendar year.	4.	No lobbyist or lobbying firm shall
make, and no City official shall accept, any gift from a lobbyist or lobbying
firm which is a restricted source as to that official.  (Amended by Ord. No.
178,064, Eff. 1/15/07.)	5.	No lobbyist or lobbying firm shall act as an agent or
intermediary in the making of any gifts or arrange for the making of any gift by
another person to any City official.	6.	The provisions of Subdivision 3 of this
subsection do not apply to foreign gifts made to an officer or employee of the
City when representing the Department of Airports or the Harbor Department,
which gift is disclosed by that official to the City Ethics Commission within 30
days after receipt on a form prescribed by the Commission.	7.	For the purpose of
this subsection, the term “gift” does not include:	(a)	Items received by a
City official which are not kept but which are turned over to the City within 30
days after their receipt.	(b)	Meals provided to a City official at an event at
which the official speaks, participates in a seminar or similar activity or
provides a similar service.	(c)	Travel expenses and meals paid for by a local,
state, federal or foreign government agency.	(d)	Items received by a bargaining
unit member from a union representing that City official.	(e)	Food and beverages
received from any union by a City official who is a member of a union
representing a bargaining unit of City officials.	(f)	Payment for travel
expenses from a campaign committee; a nonprofit organization of which the City
official is a member; or an organization of which the City, an agency, or the
official is a member acting in an official City capacity.	(g)	Gifts to
non-elected City official for legal expenses related to an enforcement action
brought under City or state ethics laws.	8.	A City official may request the City
Ethics Commission to provide that official with written advice concerning the
legality of accepting any specific gift.  Such request shall contain sufficient
information to allow the Commission or its staff to properly consider the
matter.  The Commission or its staff shall provide written advice in response
to such a request within 10 working days after the Commission’s receipt of the
request.	B.	Restrictions on Travel Advances and Reimbursements.	1.	No person
shall offer or make, and no City official shall solicit or accept, any advance
or reimbursement for travel expenses (including related lodging and reasonable
subsistence expenses) with the intent that the City official will be influenced
thereby in the performance of any official act.	2.	No person who is a restricted
source shall offer or make, and no City official shall accept from a restricted
source as to that official, any advance or reimbursement for travel expenses
(including related lodging and reasonable subsistence expenses).	3.	No lobbyist
or lobbying firm shall act as an agent or intermediary in the making of, or
arrange for the making of, any advance or reimbursement for travel expenses
(including related lodging and reasonable subsistence expenses) by another
person, to any City official.	4.	The payment for travel expenses of a City
official traveling on government business shall not be prohibited by this
section in any case where the payment is a gift or other payment to the City of
Los Angeles or to any government agency for which the City Council is the code
reviewing body with respect to that agency’s conflict of interest code, rather
than a gift or income to the official, within the meaning of the Political
Reform Act of 1974, as amended, and the regulations of the Fair Political
Practices Commission.	5.	Travel expenses subject to the prohibitions of this
subsection include expenses for intrastate travel and lodging related to a City
official’s speaking at an event, participating in a seminar or providing
similar services, notwithstanding the provisions of Title 2, California Code of
Regulations, Section 18728, or any successor section.	6.	Travel expenses subject
to the prohibitions of this subsection do not include any payment for travel
expenses from a campaign committee; a nonprofit organization of which the City
official is a member; or an organization of which the City, an agency, or the
official is a member acting in an official City capacity.	7.	This subsection
does not limit travel expenses and meals paid for by a local, state, federal or
foreign government agency.
