                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

MISUSE OF CITY POSITION OR RESOURCE. (§ 49.5.5)

  MISUSE OF CITY POSITION OR RESOURCE.
	(Title and Section Amended by Ord No. 172,891, Eff. 12/11/99.)	A.	No City
official, employee of an agency, appointee awaiting confirmation by the Council,
or candidate for elective City office shall use his or her position or
prospective position, or the power or authority of his or her office or
position, in any manner intended to induce or coerce any person to provide,
directly or indirectly, anything of value which shall accrue to the private
advantage, benefit, or economic gain of the City official or employee, or of any
other person.  As used in this section, the term “private advantage, benefit,
or economic gain” means any advantage, benefit or economic gain, distinct from
that enjoyed by members of the public without regard to official status or not
resulting naturally from lawful and proper performance of duties.  A City
official or employee engages in a prohibited use of his or her official position
or prospective position when he or she engages in activities other than in the
lawful and proper performance of the person’s City duties.	B.	No City official
or employee of an agency shall engage in campaign-related activities, such as
fundraising, the development of electronic or written materials, or research,
for a campaign for any elective office or ballot measure:	1.	during the hours
for which he or she is receiving pay to engage in City business; or	2.	using
City facilities, equipment, supplies or other City resources.	C.	No City
official or employee of an agency shall engage in outside employment during any
hours he or she is receiving pay to engage in City business.	D.	No person shall
induce or coerce, or attempt to induce or coerce any other person to engage in
any activity prohibited by Subsections B or C.	E.	Nothing in this section shall
prohibit the use of City resources to provide information to the public about
the possible effects of any bond issue or other ballot measure relating to City
activities, operations or policies, provided that (i) the use of public
resources is otherwise legally authorized, and (ii) the information provided
constitutes a fair and impartial presentation of relevant facts to aid the
electorate in reaching an informed judgment regarding the bond issue or ballot
measure.
