                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

OFFICEHOLDER EXPENSE FUND. (§ 49.7.19)

  OFFICEHOLDER EXPENSE FUND.	A.	To effectively serve and fulfill their
responsibilities to residents of the City, elected City officers communicate
with constituents, undertake efforts to assure efficient City services, and
engage in professional development activities.  To accomplish these duties and
responsibilities, an elected City officer may establish and maintain one
officeholder expense fund to pay for expenses enumerated in this Section that
relate to carrying out the duties associated with holding elected City
office.	1.	A single controlled committee shall be established for the
officeholder expense fund, and all expenditures made for the purposes of
assisting, serving, or communicating with constituents shall be made by that
committee.	2.	The committee shall establish one checking account at an office of
a financial institution located in the City for the officeholder expense fund. 
All contributions received in connection with the officeholder expense fund
shall be deposited into that account.	B.	An expenditure from the officeholder
expense fund shall be related to assisting, or serving, or communicating with
constituents, or otherwise made in connection with the official duties of the
elected City officer.  No expenditure may be made from an officeholder expense
fund regulated by this Section unless the expenditure falls into one or more of
the following categories:	1.	Expenditures for fundraising (including
solicitations by mail) for the officeholder expense fund.	2.	Expenditures for
office equipment, office furnishings, and office supplies.	3.	Expenditures for
office rent.	4.	Expenditures for salaries of part-time or full-time staff
employed by the officeholder expense fund committee.	5.	Expenditures for
consulting, research, polling, photograph, videotaping and similar
services.	6.	Expenditures for conferences, meetings, receptions, and events
attended in the performance of governmental duties by the officeholder or a
member of the officeholder’s staff.  These expenditures may include fees for
materials, registration, or admission.	7.	Expenditures for travel, including
lodging, meals, and other related disbursements, incurred in the performance of
governmental duties by the officeholder, a member of the officeholder’s staff,
or a member of such person’s household accompanying the person on such
travel.	8.	Expenditures for meals during which the attendees conduct official
City business.	9.	Expenditures for donations to organizations that have received
a federal tax exemption under Internal Revenue Code Section 501(c)(3).  For
purposes of this paragraph, a donation is a payment of which a majority of the
expenditure could be deducted as a charitable deduction for federal income tax
purposes.  A donation may be the purchase of tickets to a charitable event,
provided that the majority of the ticket price would be tax deductible and that
no substantial part of the proceeds from the event will personally benefit the
officeholder, any member of the officeholder’s immediate family, the
officeholder expense committee, or the committee’s treasurer.	10.	Expenditures
for memberships to civic or professional organizations, if such membership
serves a governmental or legislative purpose.	11.	Expenditures for an
educational course or educational seminar if the course or seminar maintains or
improves skills which are employed by the officeholder or a member of the
officeholder’s staff in the performance of his or her governmental
responsibilities.	12.	Expenditures for advertisements in program books,
testimonials, souvenir books, or other publications if the advertisement does
not support or oppose the nomination or election of a candidate for City
office.	13.	Expenditures for mailings to persons within the City which provide
information related to City-sponsored events, government services, the
requirements of the law or an official’s position on a particular matter on
which the Council, Mayor, or a City agency is acting or has recently
acted.	14.	Expenditures for the purchase of tickets to political events, where
no substantial part of the proceeds will personally benefit the officeholder,
any member of the officeholder’s immediate family, or the officeholder’s
committee treasurer.	15.	Expenditures for expressions of congratulations,
appreciation, or condolence sent to constituents, employees, governmental
officials, or other individuals with whom the officeholder communicates in an
official capacity.  No more than $100 per fiscal year may be expended per
individual recipient.	16.	Expenditures for conferences, meetings, receptions,
and events concerning City business or issues which are officially sponsored and
hosted by the officeholder.  These expenditures may include site fees,
advertising brochures, invitations, materials distributed to attendees,
refreshments, equipment, services, and other incidental
expenses.	17.	Expenditures for events such as meetings, luncheons, and retreats
attended primarily by the officeholder’s staff in the conduct of official City
business.	18.	Expenditures for social events held by the officeholder to honor
or thank members of the officeholder’s staff or in connection with a holiday
celebration attended primarily by the officeholder’s staff.	19.	Expenditures
for payment of tax liabilities incurred as a result of authorized officeholder
expense fund transactions.	20.	Expenditures for accounting, professional, and
administrative services provided to the officeholder expense
fund.	21.	Expenditures to pay for expenses that are associated with the
officeholder’s campaign committee and were either unforeseen or could not
reasonably have been paid by the campaign committee.	22.	An expenditure similar
to the specified expenditures if, prior to making the expenditure, the
officeholder or the officeholder expense fund has received written advice from
the Ethics Commission that the expenditure is permissible pursuant to this
Subsection.  The Ethics Commission shall respond to requests for such approval
no more than five working days from the date a request for formal advice has
been received.	C.	Officeholder expense funds may not be used for the
following:	1.	Expenditures in connection with a future election for elective
City office.	2.	Membership in any athletic, social, fraternal, veteran, or
religious organization.	3.	Supplemental compensation for employees for
performance of an act which would be required or expected of the person in the
regular course of duties as a City official or employee.	4.	Expenditures that
would violate the provisions of Government Code Section 89506 or 89512 through
89519.	D.	A person may not make, and an officeholder or officeholder expense
fund may not solicit or accept or cause to be solicited or accepted from a
single person, contributions or payments for legislative or governmental
purposes within the meaning of Government Code Section 82015(b)(2)(B)(iii), all
of which cumulatively exceed the following during any fiscal year:	1.	$1,000 to
the officeholder expense fund of a Citywide officeholder; or	2.	$500 to the
officeholder expense fund of a City Council officeholder.	For purposes of this
Article, a payment made for legislative or governmental purposes does not
include any payments by Internal Revenue Code Section 501(c)(3) non-profit
organizations and bona fide educational institutions for a salary or other
remuneration to a student or other worker who serves as an intern in the office
of an elected City officer.	E.	An elected City officer or officeholder expense
fund may not solicit or accept or cause to be solicited or accepted any
contribution that would cause the total of either the amount of contributions
from all persons to an officeholder expense fund or the total outstanding
balance of the fund during any fiscal year to exceed $75,000.	F.	Campaign funds
remaining in the campaign checking account of a candidate elected to City office
shall be transferred into the officeholder expense fund within six months after
election to office.  The amount of funds transferred from an officeholder’s
campaign committee and from any other officeholder expense fund account
controlled by the same elective City officer shall reduce by an equal amount the
contributions that may be solicited or accepted for the officeholder expense
fund during that fiscal year.  A maximum of $75,000 may be transferred into the
account.  If the transfer equals $75,000, no contributions may be solicited or
accepted for the officeholder expense fund for the fiscal year during which the
transfer is made.	G.	Expenditures from the officeholder expense fund may not
exceed $75,000 in a fiscal year.	H.	From the date the elected City officer files
a Declaration of Intention to Become a Candidate through the date of the
election for which the declaration was filed, officeholder expense funds may not
be expended for the following:	1.	Consulting, research, polling, photography,
videotaping, and similar services.	2.	Conferences, meetings, receptions, and
events attended by the officeholder.	3.	Travel, including lodging, meals, and
other related disbursements, incurred in the performance of governmental duties
by the officeholder, a member of the officeholder’s staff, or a member of such
person’s household accompanying the person on such travel, except to the
extent that the travel is in conjunction with an organization that has received
tax-exempt status under Internal Revenue Code Section
501(c)(3).	4.	Advertisements in program books, testimonials, souvenir books, or
other publications.	5.	Mailings that provide information about City business
when either of the following applies:	a.	The mailing consists of more than 200
substantially similar pieces; or	b.	The mailing contains the officeholder’s
name (other than as part of an electronic mail or Internet address or once on a
letterhead or envelope) or photograph.	I.	An officeholder expense fund committee
may not incur an expenditure for personal services unless the committee first
enters into a written contract for such services.  The contract shall set forth
the services to be performed and the amount that will be paid for such services
(or a basis for calculating the amount).
