                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DISCLOSURE OF INDEPENDENT EXPENDITURE COMMUNICATIONS. (§ 49.7.31)

  DISCLOSURE OF INDEPENDENT EXPENDITURE COMMUNICATIONS.	A.	A person shall
notify the Ethics Commission of an independent expenditure communication when
either of the following occurs:	1.	The person makes or incurs expenditures of
$1,000 or more for the communication; or	2.	The person makes or incurs
expenditures of $100 or more for the communication and distributes the
communication to the following number of persons:	a.	200 or more persons, if the
distributor is a person who qualifies as a committee under the Political Reform
Act.	b.	1,000 or more persons, if the distributor is not a person who qualifies
as a committee under the Political Reform Act.	Once a notification threshold is
met, every subsequent expenditure made or incurred regarding that measure or
candidate shall also be disclosed.	B.	The notification shall be submitted to the
Ethics Commission within the following time frames:	1.	From the first date an
individual may file a Declaration of Intention to Become a Candidate with the
City Clerk through the date of the associated general election, or during the 90
days prior to an election if no City candidates will be on the ballot, within 24
hours after making or incurring the expenditures.  (Amended by Ord. No.
182,362, Eff. 1/30/13.)	2.	At all other times, within five business days after
making or incurring the expenditures provided, however, in no event later than
the first date an individual may file a Declaration of Intention to Become a
Candidate.	C.	The notification shall include the following:	1.	A declaration
under penalty of perjury signed by the person and, if applicable, the committee
treasurer, specifying the following:	a.	Each candidate or measure supported or
opposed by the communication;	b.	The amount of the expenditure and the amount
spent to support or oppose each candidate or measure;	c.	Whether each candidate
or measure was supported or opposed;	d.	That the communication was not behested
by any of the candidates who benefited from it;	e.	The dates the communication
was made or distributed and any expenditure was incurred;	f.	A description of
the type of communication;	g.	The name and address of the person making,
distributing, or incurring the expenditures or distributing the
communication;	h.	The name and address of the payee, if applicable, and any
vendor that provided service for the communication;	i.	For committees,
contributions of $100 or more received by the committee since the latter of the
day after the closing date of the campaign statement filed by the committee or
the first day of the current calendar year.  This disclosure requirement does
not apply to contributions that are earmarked for a non-City candidate or ballot
measure; and	j.	Contributions of $100 or more that the person made in the
current calendar year to City candidates, City controlled committees, City
ballot measure committees, City recall committees, committees primarily formed
to support or oppose City candidates or measures, and City general purpose
recipient committees.	2.	A copy of the communication.	a.	If the communication is
a telephone call or similar audio communication, a copy of the script and, if
the communication is recorded, the recording shall be provided.	b.	If the
communication is audio or video, a copy of the script and an audio or video file
shall be provided.	D.	If an independent expenditure communication supports or
opposes a City candidate, the Ethics Commission staff will notify all candidates
in the affected race within one business day after receiving the required
notice.  The notification will indicate the candidates supported or opposed by
the independent expenditure communication, as indicated on the signed
declaration, and will include a copy of the independent expenditure
communication.	E.	The Ethics Commission shall post on its website, without
alteration, all copies of independent expenditure communications filed with the
Ethics Commission.  The Ethics Commission may not judge, comment upon, or edit
the contents of an independent expenditure communication.	F.	This Section shall
not apply to a news story, commentary, or editorial by a newspaper, radio
station, television station, or other recognized news medium, unless the
disclaimer is required for a paid communication under Section 49.7.34.  (Added
by Ord. No. 182,362, Eff. 1/30/13.)
