                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

LEGAL DEFENSE FUND. (§ 49.7.20)

  LEGAL DEFENSE FUND.	A.	Every elected City officer or candidate for elected
City office may establish and maintain a legal defense fund for a civil or
criminal court case or administrative proceeding arising directly out of the
conduct of an election campaign, the electoral process, or the performance of
the officeholder’s governmental activities and duties.	1.	In addition to
contributions received in connection with an election to an elected City office
or to defray officeholder expenses, an elected City officer or candidate for
elected City office who receives contributions for a legal defense fund may use
those funds solely to defray attorney’s fees and other legal costs incurred in
the officeholder’s or candidate’s legal defense to the civil or criminal
court case or administrative proceeding.	2.	The officeholder or candidate shall
file with the Ethics Commission a Statement of Purpose identifying the specific
civil or criminal court case or administrative proceedings for which the legal
defense fund is established.  The Statement of Purpose shall be filed before
any contributions are solicited or accepted.	3.	The legal defense fund shall be
named “The [name of candidate or officeholder] for [case or proceeding number
or, if a number does not exist, a brief description of the case or
proceeding]”.	4.	A single controlled committee shall be established for the
legal defense fund and all expenditures shall be made by that committee.	5.	The
committee shall establish one checking account at an office of a financial
institution located in the City for the legal defense fund.  All contributions
received in connection with the legal defense fund shall be deposited into that
account.	B.	A person may not make, and an elected City officer or candidate for
elected City office may not solicit or accept from a single person,
contributions totaling more than $1,000 during a fiscal year to a legal defense
fund in connection with a single court case or administrative proceeding
identified in the Statement of Purpose.	C.	Within six months after the final
conclusion of the case or proceeding and the payment of all debts incurred in
connection with that case or proceeding, any surplus legal defense funds may be
used in connection with another legal defense fund, returned to donors on a pro
rata basis, or given to the City’s General Fund.	D.	This Section is the sole
authority for soliciting or accepting contributions for the defense of an action
relating to an election campaign, electoral process, or an officeholder’s
conduct in office.
