                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SOLICITATION AND DELIVERY OF CAMPAIGN CONTRIBUTIONS. (§ 49.7.11)

  SOLICITATION AND DELIVERY OF CAMPAIGN CONTRIBUTIONS.	A.	The following
definitions apply to this Section.	1.	“Personally deliver” means to deliver
a contribution in person or to cause a contribution to be delivered in person by
an agent or intermediary.	2.	“Prohibited fundraising” means any of the
following:	a.	Requesting that another person make a contribution;	b.	Inviting a
person to a fundraising event;	c.	Supplying names to be used for invitations to
a fundraising event;	d.	Permitting one’s name or signature to appear on a
solicitation for contributions or an invitation to a fundraising
event;	e.	Permitting one’s official title to be used on a solicitation for
contributions or an invitation to a fundraising event;	f.	Providing the use of
one’s home or business for a fundraising event;	g.	Paying for at least 20
percent of the costs of a fundraising event;	h.	Hiring another person to conduct
a fundraising event;	i.	Delivering a contribution, other than one’s own,
either by mail or in person to an elected City officer, a candidate for elected
City office, or a City controlled committee; or	j.	Acting as an agent or
intermediary in connection with the making of a contribution.	B.	A person shall
not do either of the following:	1.	Solicit contributions from a City official or
employee to support or oppose the candidacy of a person for elected City office,
support or oppose the recall of an elected City officer, or to contribute to an
officeholder or legal defense fund.  This prohibition does not apply when a
person makes a solicitation to multiple persons if the person unknowingly
includes City officers or employees and City officers or employees do not make
up more than five percent of the total number of persons included in that
solicitation.	2.	Receive, personally deliver, or attempt to personally deliver a
contribution in City Hall, another City office building, or an office for which
the City pays the majority of the rent.  This prohibition does not apply to the
following:	a.	City property that is rented by a member of the public, unless the
lease or rental agreement expressly incorporates this prohibition.		b.	A
contribution that is received by mail, if it is forwarded to the candidate, the
candidate’s campaign treasurer, or the candidate’s controlled committee
within seven working days of its receipt.	C.	A member of a City board or
commission who is required to file a statement of economic interests or a
general manager of a City department shall not do either of the
following:	1.	Solicit, direct, or receive a contribution from a person who has
or, in the preceding 12 months had, a matter involving City action pending
before the board or commission member or general manager.	2.	Engage in
prohibited fundraising on behalf of an elected City officer, a candidate for
elected City office, or a City controlled committee.  This prohibition does not
apply to members of City boards or commissions or general managers who are
engaging in fundraising on behalf of their own candidacies for elected office.
