                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

EMPLOYMENT. (§ 49.72)

  EMPLOYMENT.	a.	Unlawful Practices.	1.	Employers – Discrimination.  It
shall be an unlawful employment practice for an employer to fail or refuse to
hire, or to discharge any individual, or otherwise to discriminate against any
individual with respect to compensation, terms, conditions or privileges of
employment on the basis (in whole or in part) of such individual’s sexual
orientation.	2.	Employers – Segregation.  It shall be an unlawful employment
practice for an employer to limit, segregate or classify employees or applicants
for employment in any manner which would deprive or tend to deprive any
individual of employment opportunities, or adversely affect his or her
employment status on the basis (in whole or in part) of such individual’s
sexual orientation.	3.	Employment Agencies. It shall be an unlawful employment
practice for an employment agency to fail or refuse to refer for employment any
individual, or otherwise to discriminate against any individual on the basis (in
whole or in part) of such individual’s sexual orientation.	4.	Labor
Organizations. It shall be an unlawful employment practice for a labor
organization to fail or refuse to include in its membership or to otherwise
discriminate against any individual; or to limit, segregate or classify its
membership; or to classify or fail or refuse to refer for employment any
individual in any way which would deprive or tend to deprive such individual of
employment opportunities, or otherwise adversely affect her or his status as an
employee or as an applicant for employment on the basis (in whole or in part) of
such individual’s sexual orientation.	5.	Job Training. It shall be an unlawful
employment practice for an employer, an employment agency or a labor
organization to discriminate against any individual in admission to, or
employment in, any program established to provide apprenticeship or other
training or retraining, including any on-the-job training program on the basis
(in whole or in part) of such individual’s sexual orientation.	6.	Advertising.
It shall be an unlawful employment practice for an employer, employment agency
or a labor organization to print, publish, advertise or disseminate in anyway,
any notice or advertisement with respect to employment, membership in, or any
classification or referral for employment or training by any such organization,
which indicates an unlawful discriminatory practice.	b.	Subterfuge.  It shall
be unlawful to do any of the acts mentioned in this section for any reason that
would not have been asserted wholly or partially, but for the sexual orientation
of any individual.	c.	Bona Fide Occupational Qualification Not Prohibited;
Burden of Proof.	1.	Bona Fide Occupational Qualification. Nothing contained in
this section shall be deemed to prohibit selection or rejection based upon a
bona fide occupational qualification.	2.	Burden of Proof. In any action brought
under Sec. 49.77 of this article, if a party asserts that an otherwise unlawful
discriminatory practice is justified as a bona fide occupational qualification,
that party shall have the burden of proving: (1) that the discrimination is in
fact a necessary result of a bona fide occupational qualification; and (2) that
there exists no less discriminatory means of satisfying the occupational
qualification.	d.	Exceptions.  It shall not be unlawful discriminatory practice
for an employer to observe the conditions of a bona fide employee benefit
system, provided, such systems or plans are not a subterfuge to evade the
purposes of this Article; provided further that no such system shall provide an
excuse for failure to hire any individual.
