                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

BIDDER CONTRIBUTION AND FUNDRAISING RESTRICTIONS. (§ 49.7.35)

  BIDDER CONTRIBUTION AND FUNDRAISING RESTRICTIONS.	A.	Definitions.  The
following definitions apply for purposes of Charter Section
470(c)(12):	1.	“Awarding Authority” means the City Council, a City board,
commission, authorized employee, or authorized officer, including those who have
control of their own special funds but excluding the City Purchasing Agent when
acting pursuant to Section 9.1 of the Los Angeles Administrative Code, who makes
or enters into a contract for the provision of goods or services of any kind or
nature whatsoever to, for, or on behalf of the City.  References to the
awarding authority shall include references to staff when working on a matter
subject to this Section.	2.	“Approval by an elected City office” means
approval of a contract or selection of a pre-qualified list of persons to
contract with the City in any of the following circumstances:	a.	The elected
City officer or the elected City officer’s office is the awarding
authority;	b.	The contract involves services provided directly to or under the
supervision of the elected City officer; or	c.	The contract requires approval of
the elected City officer or the elected City officer’s office pursuant to City
law, executive directive, or City Council action.	The term does not include
approval by an elected City officer that is required pursuant to Charter Section
262, 271(d), or 370 for non-proprietary departments, provided that City Council
approval is not otherwise required and the elected City offices identified in
those Sections are neither the awarding authority nor supervising the services
under the contract.  The term does include approval by an elected City officer
that is required pursuant to Charter Section 262, 271(d), or 370 for contracts
with the Harbor, Water and Power, and Airport Departments.	3.	“Bidder” means
a person who bids on or submits a proposal or other response to a City contract
solicitation.	4.	“Contract solicitation” means a request for proposals,
request for bids, request for qualifications, or any other request, whether
written or verbal, for purposes of entering into a contract.  However, a
solicitation does not include a request to enter into a contract that relies on
other City agency’s competitive process if the prior City contract was subject
to the Charter Section 470(c)(12) restrictions and restrictions of this
Section.	5.	“Contract” means any agreement, franchise, lease, non-regulatory
permit, land use license or easement, or concession, including any agreement for
occasional professional or technical personal services, for the performance of
any work or service or construction, the provision of any materials, goods,
equipment, or supplies, the sale or purchase of property, the making of grants,
or the rendering of any service to the City, including any proprietary
department, or to the public where all of the following apply:	a.	The contract
is let, awarded, or entered into, with, or on behalf of the City or an awarding
authority;	b.	The contract has an anticipated value of at least $100,000,
including exercising all anticipated options; and	c.	The contract requires
approval by an elected City office.	The term includes any subsequent amendment
that, by itself or in combination with the original contract and any other
amendments, has an anticipated value of at least $100,000 and requires approval
by an elected City office.  The term also includes the selection of a
pre-qualified list of persons to contract with the City where the request for
qualifications includes a not-to-exceed amount of at least $100,000 and the list
selection requires approval by an elected City office.  The term does not
include any contract with another government agency or a contract with an
underwriting firm pursuant to Charter Section 609(e) for proprietary
noncompetitive sales of revenue bonds.	6.	“Principal” means the following
with regard to persons who are bidders and sub-contractors:	a.	The person’s
board chair, president, chief executive officer, chief operating officer, and an
individual who serves in the functional equivalent of one or more of those
positions;	b.	An individual who holds an ownership interest in the person of 20
percent or more; and	c.	An individual employee of the bidder or sub-contractor
authorized by the bid or proposal to represent the person before the
City.	7.	“Prohibited fundraising” means the following activities:	a.	Asking
the bidder, sub-contractor, or an employee, officer, or principal of the bidder
or sub-contractor to make a contribution;	b.	Inviting the bidder,
sub-contractor, or an employee, officer or principal of the bidder or
sub-contractor to a fundraising event;	c.	Supplying the name of the bidder,
sub-contractor, or an employee, officer or principal of the bidder or
sub-contractor to be used for an invitation to a fundraising
event;	d.	Permitting one’s name to appear on a solicitation for contributions
or an invitation to a fundraising event sent to the bidder, sub-contractor, or
an employee, officer, or principal of the bidder or sub-contractor;	e.	Providing
the use of one’s home or business to hold a fundraising event if the bidder,
sub-contractor or an employee, officer, or principal of the bidder or
sub-contractor attends the event;	f.	Paying for at least 20 percent of the costs
of a fundraising event if the bidder, sub-contractor, or an employee, officer,
or principal of the bidder or sub-contractor attends the event;	g.	Hiring
another person to conduct a fundraising event if the bidder, a sub-contractor,
or an employee, officer, or principal of the bidder or sub-contractor attends
the event;	h.	Delivering a contribution, either in person or by mail, of the
bidder, a sub-contractor, or an employee, officer, or principal of the bidder or
sub-contractor to the elected City officer, candidate for elected City office,
or an agent of the officer or candidate; or	i.	Acting as an agent or
intermediary in connection with the making of a contribution of the bidder, a
sub-contractor, or an employee, officer, or principal of the bidder or
sub-contractor to an elected City officer, a candidate for elected City office,
or a City controlled committee.	8.	“Sub-contractor” means a person who is
expected to receive at least $100,000 as a result of performing some or all of a
bidder’s contract obligations and includes a subtenant where the subtenant is
expected to receive at least $100,000 as a result of performing a portion of the
contract obligations of the contractor and is required to pay the contractor at
least $100,000.	B.	For purposes of Charter Section 470(c)(12), the following
apply:	1.	Timing of Fundraising and Contribution Restrictions.  In addition to
the restrictions provided in Charter Section 470(c)(12), except as otherwise
provided in Subsection B.5., bidders, sub-contractors, and principals may not
make contributions to or engage in prohibited fundraising for elected City
officers, candidates for elected City office, or City controlled committees from
the date a bid is submitted until one of the following dates:	a.	For
unsuccessful bidders, the date the contract is signed or the solicitation is
withdrawn or canceled.	b.	For successful bidders, 12 months after the contract
is signed.	2.	Contract Solicitations and Notifications.  Each awarding
authority shall include in each contract solicitation the form identified in
Subsection B.3. and a description of the prohibitions and requirements of
Charter Section 470(c)(12).  The awarding authority shall determine whether the
form is complete for responsiveness purposes and electronically submit the form
to the City Ethics Commission, in a Portable Document Format (PDF) or other
electronic format pre-approved by the Commission, within ten business days of
the bid due date.  The awarding authority shall either notify bidders who are
not awarded a contract of the date that the contract was signed or the contract
solicitation was terminated or withdrawn or notify the bidders how they may
obtain or request the date that the contract was signed or the contract
solicitation was terminated or withdrawn, unless that information is available
on a City website.	3.	Disclosure Form.  As provided in Subsection B.2., every
bidder shall file with the awarding authority, at the time the bid or other
response is submitted, the following information under oath in a form and format
approved by the City Ethics Commission:	a.	A description of the contract,
including any City reference number associated with it, or if selection is of a
pre-qualified list, a short description of the services to be provided,
including any City reference number associated with it;	b.	The name of the
awarding authority;	c.	The date the bid or other response was submitted to the
awarding authority;	d.	The name of the bidder;	e.	The address of the
bidder;	f.	The phone number of the bidder;	g.	The names and titles of the
bidder’s principals;	h.	The names of the bidder’s sub-contractors;	i.	The
names and titles of each sub-contractor’s principals; and	j.	A certification
that the bidder understands, will comply with, and will notify its principals
and sub-contractors of the prohibitions and restrictions in this Section and
Charter Section 470(c)(12).	4.	Requirement to Amend Form.  If the information
submitted pursuant to Subsection B.3. changes after the bid is submitted, the
bidder shall amend the form and submit it to the awarding authority within ten
business days of the change.  The requirement to amend the form applies
whenever the prohibitions and restrictions in Charter Section 470(c)(12) apply
to the bidder, including after the contract approval for successful bidders. 
The awarding authority shall electronically submit the form to the City Ethics
Commission, in a Portable Document Format (PDF) or other electronic format
pre-approved by the Commission, within ten business days of receipt.	5.	Contract
Amendments.  If a contract amendment requires approval by an elected City
officer and makes the total value of the contract $100,000, or more for the
first time, the prohibitions and restrictions in Charter Section 470(c)(12)
apply from the date the awarding authority first discusses the amendment and
terminates 12 months after the date the amendment is approved, disapproved, or
withdrawn.  However, the restrictions in Charter Section 470(c)(12) do not
apply to any subsequent amendments if the contract was previously subject to the
restrictions and the contractor fulfilled its obligations under the Charter and
this Section.	a.	The awarding authority shall notify bidders who were not
previously required to submit the form identified in Subsection B.3. of the
requirements in this Section and Charter Section 470(c)(12) at the time the
awarding authority first discusses the amendment with the bidder.	b.	Bidders who
were not previously required to submit the form identified in Subsection B.3.
shall submit the form within ten business days of the date the awarding
authority first discusses the amendment with the bidder.  The awarding
authority shall electronically submit the form to the City Ethics Commission in
a Portable Document Format (PDF) or other electronic format pre-approved by the
Commission within ten business days of receipt.	c.	This provision does not apply
to the exercise of an option that has been previously approved in a written
contract.	6.	Business Assistance Virtual Network.  In the event that the
City’s Business Assistance Virtual Network or similar electronic system is
used by a bidder to submit the forms required by this Section to the awarding
authority and the Business Assistance Virtual Network or similar electronic
system sends the submitted data to the City Ethics Commission, the awarding
authority shall not be required to submit the form(s) to the City Ethics
Commission.	C.	Violations and Debarment.	1.	In addition to any other penalties
or remedies established by this Article, a person who is found to have violated
this Section or Charter Section 470(c)(12) shall not be eligible to bid on or be
considered for a contract, extension, or amendment unless the Ethics Commission,
as a body, determines that mitigating circumstances exist concerning such
violation.	2.	The Ethics Commission, as a body, shall determine whether
mitigating circumstances apply whenever a violation of this Section or Charter
Section 470(c)(12) is determined to have occurred.  If the Ethics Commission
determines that mitigating circumstances do not exist, the person found to be in
violation shall be debarred for the following periods of time after the Ethics
Commission’s determination:	a.	One year for the first violation;	b.	Two years
for the second violation;	c.	Three years for the third violation; and	d.	Four
years for the fourth and subsequent violations.	3.	The Ethics Commission may
adopt regulations regarding mitigating circumstances, including what constitutes
mitigating circumstances and any other information determined to be
necessary.	4.	The Ethics Commission staff shall notify all agencies,
departments, board and offices of a determination of debarment within ten
business days of the determination.  The Ethics Commission’s determination
regarding debarment is final as to all offices, departments, boards, and
agencies and may not be waived.	5.	If an awarding authority has an existing
contract with a person who is identified in a debarment notice from the Ethics
Commission staff, the awarding authority shall determine in writing and, if the
awarding authority is a City board, commission, or City Council, at a public
meeting whether it is the best interests of the City to terminate the
contract.	6.	An awarding authority shall not determine whether a violation of
this Article or any other City law regarding campaign financing, lobbying, or
governmental ethics has occurred.	7.	A person who fails to submit a complete
disclosure form as required by this Section shall be deemed nonresponsive. 
However, an awarding authority may award the contract to a bidder who did not
submit a complete disclosure form under the following circumstances:	a.	The
contract is a sole source contract for work (as defined in U.S. copyright law)
that is protected under an exclusive copyright interest or a subject matter (as
defined in U.S. patent law) that is protected by a U.S. patent or a foreign
patent that is enforceable in the United States; and	b.	Before awarding the
contract, the awarding authority does the following:	i.	Makes a written finding
that entering into the contract is in the best interests of the City;
and	ii.	Notifies the contractor that the contractor, sub-contractor, and
principals that, notwithstanding the failure to complete the disclosure form,
they are not relieved of their obligations to comply with the requirements of
the Charter and this Section or the penalties that may result from failing to
comply with those requirements.
