                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ENFORCEMENT. (§ 49.7.38)

  ENFORCEMENT.	A.	Criminal 	1.	A person who knowingly or willfully violates a
provision of this Article is guilty of a misdemeanor.  Any person who knowingly
or willfully causes another person to violate a provision of this Article, or
who aids and abets another person in the violation of a provision of this
Article, is liable under the provisions of this Section.	2.	Prosecution of a
violation of this Article shall be commenced within four years after the date of
the violation.	3.	A person convicted of a misdemeanor under this Article may not
act as a City lobbyist or as a City contractor for four years following the date
of the conviction, unless the court specifically determines at the time of
sentencing that this provision should not be applied.  For purposes of this
Subsection, a plea of nolo contendere is a conviction.	B.	Civil Actions.	1.	A
person who intentionally or negligently violates a provision of this Article is
liable in a civil action brought by the City Attorney, the Ethics Commission, or
a person residing within the City.  The amount of liability may not exceed the
greater of $5,000 per violation or three times the amount the person failed to
properly report or unlawfully contributed, expended, gave, or received.	2.	If
two or more persons are responsible for a violation, they are jointly and
severally liable.	3.	Before filing a civil action pursuant to this Subsection, a
person other than the City Attorney shall first file with the Ethics Commission
a written request for the Ethics Commission to commence an action.  The request
shall contain a statement of the grounds for believing a cause of action
exists.  The Ethics Commission shall respond within 40 days after receiving the
request and indicate whether it intends to file a civil action.  If the
Commission indicates in the affirmative and files an action within 40 days after
the response, no other action may be brought unless the action brought by the
Ethics Commission is dismissed without prejudice.	4.	In determining the amount
of liability, the court may take into account the seriousness of the violation
and the degree of culpability of the defendant.  If a judgment is entered
against the defendant or defendants in an action, a private plaintiff shall
receive 50 percent of the amount recovered.  The remaining 50 percent shall be
deposited into the City’s General Fund.  In an action brought by the City
Attorney or the Ethics Commission, the entire amount shall be paid to the
City’s General Fund.	5.	An action alleging a violation of this Article may not
be filed more than four years after the date the violation
occurred.	C.	Injunctive Relief.  A person residing within the City, including
the City Attorney, may sue for injunctive relief to enjoin violations or to
compel compliance with the provisions of this Article.	D.	Costs of Litigation. 
In a civil action, the court may award to a prevailing party, other than an
agency, the party’s costs of litigation, including reasonable attorneys’
fees.  If the costs or fees are awarded against the City, the payment of the
award is the responsibility of the City, subject to City Council
approval.	E.	Administrative Penalties.  The Ethics Commission may impose
penalties and issue orders for violations of this Article pursuant to its
authority under Charter Section 706(c).
	
	F.	Liability.	1.	In addition to a committee itself, persons who qualify under
the Political Reform Act as principle officers of the committee are jointly and
severally liable for violations by the committee.  For City committees
controlled by a candidate for elected City office, the candidate and the
committee treasurer are deemed to be principle officer.	2.	In addition to a
person whose conduct is required or prohibited under this Article, an agent
acting on behalf of that person is jointly and severally liable for a violation
that arises out of the agent’s actions.  There is a rebuttable presumption
that the following persons are agents of a committee:	a.	A current or former
officer of the committee;	b.	An employee of the committee;	c.	A person who has
received compensation or reimbursement from the committee; and	d.	A person who
holds or has held a position within the committee organization that reasonably
appears to be able to authorize expenditures for committee activities.	3.  This
Subsection does not limit potential liability for persons who cause another
person to violate this Article or who aids and abets another person in a
violation as described in Charter Section 706.
