                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DISCLAIMERS ON POLITICAL COMMUNICATIONS. (§ 49.7.33)

  DISCLAIMERS ON POLITICAL COMMUNICATIONS.	A.	A person shall incorporate the
following statements in a campaign, officeholder, or legal defense
communication:  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,362, Eff. 1/30/13.)	1.	“Paid for
by” immediately followed by the name, address, and city of that candidate or
committee.  The address and city are not required in an audio
communication.	a.	If the communication is made by a controlled committee, the
name of the person controlling the committee shall also be included.	b.	If an
acronym is used to specify a committee name, the full name of any sponsoring
organization of the committee shall also be included.	2.	“Additional
information is available at ethics.lacity.org.”  A substantially similar
statement that specifies the web site may be used as an alternative in audio
communications.	B.	A committee making an independent expenditure communication
under Section 49.7.31 (A) shall incorporate the following statements:  (Amended
by Ord. No. 182,362, Eff. 1/30/13.)	1.	“Paid for by” immediately followed by
the person’s name, address, and city.  If an acronym is used to specify a
committee name, the full name of the sponsoring committee shall also be
included.  The address and city are not required in an audio
communication.	2.	“Not authorized by or coordinated with a City
candidate.”	3.	“Major funding provided by [names of the two contributors who
gave the most to the committee in the six months prior to the date of the
payment for the independent expenditure], in the amount of [the total amount of
contributions made by those contributors in the same six-month period].” 
However, the amount of the contributions is not required in an audio
communication.	4.	“Additional information is available at
ethics.lacity.org.”  A substantially similar statement that specifies the web
site may be used as an alternative in audio communications.	C.	A person making
an independent expenditure communication under Section 49.7.31 A.2. shall
incorporate the following statements:	1.	“Not authorized by or coordinated
with a City candidate.”	2.	“Additional information is available at
ethics.lacity.org.”	D.	All disclaimers shall be presented in a clear and
conspicuous manner to give the reader, observer, or listener adequate notice. 
Minimum requirements are specified below:	1.	For written communications up to 24
inches by 36 inches, disclaimers shall be printed using a typeface that is
easily legible to an average reader and is not less than 12-point type in a
color that contrasts with the background on which it appears.	2.	For written
communications larger than 24 inches by 36 inches, the total height of the
disclaimer shall constitute at least five percent of the total height of the
communication, be printed using a typeface that is easily legible to an average
reader, and be printed in a color that contrasts with the background on which it
appears.	3.	For video communications, the disclaimer shall be written in a
typeface that is easily legible to an average reader, in a color that contrasts
with the background on which it appears, and shall appear for at least four
seconds at either the beginning or the end of the communication.  A spoken
disclaimer is also required if the written disclaimer does not appear for at
least five seconds of a communication that is 30 seconds or less or for at least
ten seconds of a communication that is longer than 30 seconds.  A spoken
disclaimer shall be clearly audible and spoken at the same speed and volume as
the rest of the communication.	4.	For audio communications, disclaimers shall be
spoken in a clearly audible manner at either the beginning or end of the
communication.  The disclaimers shall be spoken at the same speed and volume as
the rest of the communication and shall last at least five
seconds.	E.	Disclaimers are required for all political communications that shall
be disclosed under Section 49.7.31 or 49.7.32 except for small promotional
items, such as pens, pencils, mugs, potholders, and other items on which a
disclaimer cannot be reasonably displayed in an easily legible typeface. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 182,362, Eff. 1/30/13.)	F.	A person shall amend political
communications within five business days after any information in the disclaimer
changes.  A committee shall be deemed to have complied with this requirement
if, within five business days, the amended communication is sent to all affected
recipients with a request that the previous communication immediately be
replaced.  For written communications, disclaimers shall be amended to reflect
accurate disclosure information every time the communication is reproduced.
