                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

HOUSING AND OTHER REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS. (§ 49.73)

  HOUSING AND OTHER REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS.	a.	Unlawful Real Estate
Practices.	1.	Transactions Generally. It shall be an unlawful real estate
practice for any person to interrupt, terminate, or fail or refuse to initiate
or conduct any transaction in real property, including but not limited to the
rental thereof; to require different terms for such transaction; to include in
the terms or conditions of a transaction in real property any clause, condition
or restriction; or falsely to represent that an interest in real property is not
available for transaction; on the basis (in whole or in part) of any
individual’s sexual orientation.	2.	Credit and Insurance. It shall be an
unlawful real estate practice for any person to refuse to lend money, guarantee
the loan, accept a deed of trust or mortgage, or otherwise refuse to make
available funds for the purchase, acquisition, construction, alteration,
rehabilitation, repair or maintenance of real property; or impose different
conditions on such financing; or refuse to provide title or other insurance
relating to the ownership or use of any interest in real property; on the basis
(in whole or in part) of any individual’s sexual orientation.	3.	Tenants’
Services. It shall be an unlawful real estate practice for any person to refuse
or restrict facilities, services, repairs or improvements for any tenant or
lessee; on the basis (in whole or in part) of any individual’s sexual
orientation.	4.	Advertising. It shall be an unlawful real estate practice for
any person to make, print, publish, advertise or disseminate in anyway, any
notice, statement or advertisement with respect to a transaction or proposed
transaction in real property, or with respect to financing related to any such
transaction, which unlawfully indicates or attempts to indicate any unlawful
preference, limitation or discrimination.	b.	Subterfuge.  It shall be unlawful
to do any of the actions mentioned in this section for any reason that would not
have been asserted, wholly or partially, but for the sexual orientation of any
individual.	c.	Exceptions.	1.	Owner Occupied and Small Dwellings. Nothing in
this article shall be construed to apply to the rental or leasing of any housing
unit in which the owner or lessor or any member of his or her family occupies
one of the living units and either (1) it is necessary for the owner or lessor
to use either a bathroom or kitchen facility in common with the prospective
tenant; or (2) the structure contains less than three dwelling units.	2.	Effect
on Other Laws. Nothing in this article shall be deemed to permit any rental or
occupancy of any dwelling unit or commercial space otherwise prohibited by law.
