                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

UNDERWRITER CONTRIBUTION AND FUNDRAISING RESTRICTIONS. (§ 49.7.36)

  UNDERWRITER CONTRIBUTION AND FUNDRAISING RESTRICTIONS.	A.	Definitions.  For
purposes of Charter Section 609(e), the definition of awarding authority in
Section 49.7.35 A. applies.  The following definitions also
apply:	1.	“Prohibited Fundraising” means the following activities:	a.	Asking
the underwriting firm, sub-contractor, or an employee, officer, or principal of
the underwriting firm or sub-contractor to make a contribution;	b.	Inviting the
underwriting firm, sub-contractor, or an employee, officer, or principal of the
underwriting firm or sub-contractor to a fundraising event;	c.	Supplying the
name of the underwriting firm, sub-contractor, or an employee, officer, or
principal of the underwriting firm or sub-contractor to be used for an
invitation to a fundraising event;	d.	Permitting one’s name to appear on a
solicitation for contributions or an invitation to a fundraising event sent to
the underwriting firm, sub-contractor, or an employee or officer of one of those
persons;	e.	Providing the use of one’s home or business to hold a fundraising
event if the underwriting firm, sub-contractor, or an employee, officer, or
principal of the underwriting firm or sub-contractor attends the
event;	f.	Paying for at least 20 percent of the costs of a fundraising event if
the underwriting firm, sub-contractor, or an employee, officer, or principal of
the underwriting firm or sub-contractor attends the event;	g.	Hiring another
person to conduct a fundraising event if the underwriting firm, sub-contractor,
or an employee, officer, or principal of the underwriting firm or sub-contractor
attends the event;	h.	Delivering a contribution, either in person or by mail, of
the underwriting firm, sub-contractor, or to an employee, officer, or principal
of the underwriting firm or sub-contractor to an elected City officer, a
candidate for elected City office, or an agent of the officer or candidate;
or	i.	Acting as an agent or intermediary in connection with the making of a
contribution by the underwriting firm, sub-contractor, or to an or employee,
officer, or principal of the underwriting firm or sub-contractor to an elected
City officer, a candidate for elected City office, or a City controlled
committee.	2.	“Sub-contractor” means a person who is expected to receive at
least $100,000 as a result of performing some or all of the underwriting
firm’s contract obligations but does not include an underwriting firm member
of the syndicate in the applicable revenue bond sale.	3.	“Underwriting firm”
means any firm that seeks to provide underwriting services for noncompetitive
sales of revenue bonds for the Airport, Harbor, or Water and Power Departments
as provided in Charter Section 609 in response to a solicitation from an
awarding authority.	B.	For purposes of Charter Section 609(e), the following
apply:	1.	Timing of Fundraising and Contribution Restrictions.  In addition to
the restrictions provided in Charter Section 609(e), underwriting firms,
sub-contractors, and principals may not make any contributions to or engage in
prohibited fundraising for elected City officers, candidates for elected City
office, or City controlled committees from the date a response is submitted to a
solicitation to be included on a pre-qualified list of underwriters or any
subsequent solicitation for selection of an underwriter until one of the
following dates:	a.	For underwriting firms that are not selected to be on the
pre-qualified list, the date the list selection is made.	b.	For underwriting
firms that are on the pre-qualified list, but not selected to contract after a
subsequent solicitation, and are not members of the syndicate providing
underwriting services on the sale of the revenue bonds, 12 months following the
date of the list selection, and following the solicitation, on the date of the
selection of the underwriting firm for a noncompetitive bond sale, or the date
the solicitation is withdrawn or canceled.	c.	For underwriting firms that are on
the pre-qualified list, and are selected to contract after a subsequent
solicitation, or are members of the syndicate providing underwriting services on
the sale of the revenue bonds, 12 months following the date of the list
selection, and 12 months after the underwriter selection is made.	2.	Contract
Solicitations and Notifications.  Each awarding authority shall include in each
contract solicitation for underwriting firm services regarding a noncompetitive
sale for revenue bonds, including selection of a pre-qualified list of
underwriters, the form identified in Subsection B.3. and a description of the
prohibitions and requirements in the City Charter Section 609(e) and this
Section.  The awarding authority shall determine whether the form is complete
for responsiveness purposes and shall electronically submit the form to the City
Ethics Commission, in a Portable Document Format (PDF) or other electronic
format pre-approved by the Commission, within 10 business days of the due date
of the proposals.  The awarding authority shall notify each underwriting firm
that is not selected as pre-qualified underwriter or not selected as the
underwriter on a particular noncompetitive sale of revenue bonds, the date the
selection was made, terminated, or withdrawn, unless that information is
available on a City website.	3.	Disclosure Form.  Every underwriting firm
seeking to provide services regarding noncompetitive sales of revenue bonds
under Charter Section 609(e) shall file with the awarding authority, at the time
the response is submitted, the following information under oath in a form and
format approved by the City Ethics Commission:	a.	A description of the contract,
including any City reference number associated with it, or if selection is of a
pre-qualified list, a short description of the services to be provided,
including any City reference number associated with it;	b.	The name of the
awarding authority;	c.	The date the bid or other response was submitted to the
awarding authority;	d.	The name of the underwriting firm;	e.	The address of the
underwriting firm;	f.	The phone number of the underwriting firm;	g.	The names
and titles of the underwriting firm’s principals;	h.	The names of the
underwriting firm’s sub-contractors;	i.	The names and titles of each
sub-contractor’s principals;  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,362, Eff.
1/30/13.)	j.	A certification that the underwriting firm understands, will comply
with, and will notify its principals and sub-contractors of the prohibitions and
restrictions in this Section and Charter Section 609(e); and  (Amended by Ord.
No. 182,362, Eff. 1/30/13.)	k.	A certification that the underwriting firm and
its principals have not made prohibited gifts or contributions during the 12
months prior to selection for a contract, unless the matter is only a selection
of a pre-qualified list of underwriters.	4.	Requirement to Amend Form.  If the
information submitted pursuant to Subsection B.3. changes after the response is
submitted, the underwriting firm shall amend the form and submit it to the
awarding authority within ten business days of the change.  The requirement to
amend the form applies whenever the prohibitions and restrictions in Charter
Section 609(e) apply to the underwriting firm, including after the contract
approval for underwriting firms that are selected or are performing underwriting
service as a member of a syndicate on the revenue bond sale.  The awarding
authority shall electronically submit the form to the City Ethics Commission, in
a Portable Document Format (PDF) or other electronic format pre-approved by the
Commission, within 10 business days of receipt.	5.	Business Assistance Virtual
Network.  In the event that the City’s Business Assistance Virtual Network or
similar electronic system is used by a bidder to submit the forms required by
this Section to the awarding authority and the Business Assistance Virtual
Network or similar electronic system sends the submitted data to the City Ethics
Commission, the awarding authority shall not be required to submit the form(s)
to the City Ethics Commission.	6.	Violations and Debarment.  The provisions of
Section 49.7.35 C. shall also apply to violations of this Section and Charter
Section 609(e).
