                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PARTICIPATION AND QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS. (§ 49.7.23)

  PARTICIPATION AND QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.	A.	Agreeing to participate in
the matching funds program is binding on the candidate for both the primary
election and the general election.	B.	A participating candidate who qualifies to
receive matching funds in the primary election automatically qualifies to
receive matching funds in the general election.  A participating candidate who
does not qualify to receive matching funds in the primary election, may qualify
to receive matching funds through the candidate’s controlled committee for the
general election.	C.	Qualification means that a participating candidate has met
all of the following requirements:	1.	The candidate and the candidate’s
controlled committee received qualified contributions that meet the following
criteria:	a.	The contributions meet or exceed the following aggregate
amounts:	i.	$25,000 for City Council candidates;	ii.	$75,000 for City Attorney
and Controller candidates;	iii.	$150,000 for Mayoral candidates.	The first $500
of each contribution counts toward the threshold for Citywide candidates, and
the first $250 of each contribution counts toward the threshold for City Council
candidates.  Loans, pledges, and non-monetary contributions do not count toward
the thresholds.	b.	The contributions are not from the candidate or the
candidate’s immediate family.	c.	For regular elections, the contributions were
received prior to the date of the election and after the opening of the
applicable fundraising window, as specified in Section 49.7.10 A.  For special
elections, the contributions were received prior to the date of the election,
after the election has been called, and after the Declaration of Intent to
Solicit and Receive Contributions has been filed.	d.	Beginning with the 2015
regular City elections, the contributions were received from individuals
residing within the City.	e.	Beginning with the 2015 regular City elections, the
contributions include 200 contributions of at least five dollars each from
individuals residing within the City or, for City Council candidates, within the
council district for which election is sought.	2.	The candidate is certified to
appear on the ballot for the election and is not a write-in candidate.	3.	The
candidate is opposed by a candidate running for the same office who has
qualified to appear on the ballot for that election and is not a write-in
candidate.	4.	The candidate contributes no more than the following amounts in
personal funds to the campaign:	a.	$31,100 for City Council
candidates.	b.	$124,500 for Citywide candidates.	These amounts are subject to
adjustment under Section 49.7.3.	5.	The candidate agrees in writing to
participate in at least one debate with opponents in the primary election and in
at least two debates with the opponent in the general election.	6.	The candidate
agrees in writing not to exceed the applicable expenditure ceilings.	7.	The
candidate or the candidate’s controlled committee has filed all previously due
campaign statements required by the Political Reform Act, the Charter, this
Code, or the Administrative Code.	D.	A participating candidate who violates the
terms of the Matching Funds Program is disqualified from receiving matching
funds for the remainder of the election cycle.
