                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

MATCHING FUNDS FORMULA. (§ 49.7.27)

  MATCHING FUNDS FORMULA.	A.	A qualified contribution will be matched with
public funds up to the following amounts:	1.	$250 per qualified contribution for
City Council candidates;	2.	$500 per qualified contribution for Citywide
candidates.	B. 	Beginning with the 2015 regular elections, a qualified
contribution will be matched with public funds at the following rates: 
(Amended by Ord. No. 182,362, Eff. 1/30/13.)	1.	For participating candidates who
have qualified to receive matching funds but have not met the criteria in
Subsection C., one dollar in matching funds will be paid for each dollar in
qualified contributions in both the primary election and the general
election.	2.	For participating candidates who have qualified to receive matching
funds and have met the criteria in Subsection C., two dollars in matching funds
will be paid for each dollar in qualified contributions for the primary election
and four dollars in matching funds will be paid for each dollar in qualified
contributions for the general election.	3.	In a general election, each
participating candidate will receive a grant of one-fifth of the amount
specified in Section 49.7.29 B. upon the later of being certified to appear on
the general election ballot or qualifying to receive matching funds.  The
remaining four-fifths will be paid at the rate that applies under either
paragraph 1 or paragraph 2.	C.	Beginning with the 2015 regular elections,
participating candidates who have qualified to receive matching funds are
eligible for the rate of match in Subsection B.2. if they submit to the City
Clerk either of the following by the last date to submit nominating petitions
for the primary election:  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,362, Eff. 1/30/13.)	1.	For
candidates choosing not to pay a filing fee pursuant to Section 310 of the City
Elections Code, a nominating petition that includes the signatures of at least
1,000 qualified registered voters; or	2.	For candidates choosing to pay a filing
fee pursuant to Section 310 of the City Elections Code, a nominating petition
that includes the signatures of at least 500 qualified registered voters and a
Matching Funds Additional Signatures Form, prescribed by the Ethics Commission,
that includes the signatures of at least 500 and no more than 1,000 additional
qualified registered voters of the City for Citywide candidates, or of the
district for Council candidates.	a.	The City Clerk shall review and verify the
signatures on the Matching Funds Additional Signatures Form using the same
process that is used for reviewing and verifying the signatures on nominating
petitions, and the City Clerk’s process for nominating petitions shall not be
altered by this requirement.  The City Clerk shall only review the signatures
on a candidate’s Matching Funds Additional Signatures Form after the City
Clerk has determined that the candidate has qualified for the ballot.	b.	Extra
signatures that are submitted on a nominating petition but are not required for
qualification for the ballot shall not be counted for purposes of determining a
candidate’s qualification for the rate of match in Subsection B.2.	c.	The
signatures on the Matching Funds Additional Signatures Form that are used to
qualify for the rate of match in Subsection B.2. must be distinct from the
signatures on the nominating petition that are used to qualify for the ballot,
so that the candidate obtains signatures from at least 1,000 qualified
registered voters of the City for Citywide candidates, or of the district for
Council candidates.	d.	The City Clerk’s review of the Matching Funds
Additional Signatures Form shall be completed by the last day of the City
Clerk’s review period for nominating petitions.	Within one business day after
the close of the review period for nominating petitions, the City Clerk shall
notify the Ethics Commission of all candidates who have been verified as having
submitted the signatures of at least 1,000 qualified registered voters.	D.	For
elections occurring prior to the 2015 regular City elections, a qualified
contribution will be matched with public funds at the following rates:	1. 	In
the primary election, two dollars in matching funds will be paid to qualified
participating candidates for each dollar in qualified contributions.	2.	In the
general election, each participating candidate who has qualified to receive
matching funds will, upon certification for the ballot, receive a grant of
one-fifth of the amount specified in Section 49.7.29 B. upon the latter of being
certified to appear on the general election ballot or qualifying to receive
matching funds.  The remaining four-fifths will be paid at the rate of four
dollars in matching funds for each dollar in qualified contributions.
