                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEFINITIONS. (§ 49.7.2)

  DEFINITIONS.	The following terms have the meanings identified below.  Other
terms used in this Article have the meanings identified in the Political Reform
Act.  All terms used in this Article shall be interpreted in accordance with
the Political Reform Act.	A.	“Behested” means made at the request of, at the
suggestion of, with the cooperation of, in concert with, in consultation with,
in coordination with, under the direction of, or under any arrangement with a
candidate or candidate’s City controlled committee.	1.	There is a rebuttable
presumption that a communication is behested in any of the following
circumstances:	a.	The spender and the candidate retain the same individual or
entity to provide non-ministerial, campaign-related professional services,
including but not limited to polling, campaign research, media consultation or
production, direct mail consultation, and fundraising, in the same election
cycle.	b.	The communication reproduces or redistributes, in whole or substantial
part, a campaign, officeholder, or legal defense communication.	c.	The
communication includes information about a candidate’s campaign plans,
projects, or needs that is not generally available to the public or is provided
directly or indirectly by the candidate.	d.	The spender discusses or negotiates
the communication with the candidate.	e.	The spender is serving or has served in
a formal advisory or policy-making position with the candidate or has
participated in strategic or policy-making discussions with the candidate
regarding the pursuit of nomination or election to office and, in the same
election cycle, the candidate is pursuing the office that the campaign
communication is intended to influence.	f.	The communication is made in
connection with fundraising events or campaign activities co-sponsored by the
candidate and the spender.	2.	None of the following circumstances is sufficient
in and of itself to constitute a behested campaign, officeholder, or legal
defense communication:	a.	The spender interviews the candidate regarding
legislative or policy issues that affect the spender or discusses
campaign-related issues with the candidate but does not communicate with the
candidate regarding the communication.	b.	The spender solicits or obtains a
photograph, biography, position paper, press release, or similar material from
the candidate and, without the candidate’s prior knowledge, uses that material
in the communication.	c.	The spender made contributions to the candidate.	d.	The
spender communicates to the candidate the intent to make a communication but
does not discuss or negotiate the communication with the candidate.	e.	A member
of a spender organization provides volunteer services to or works for the
affected candidate’s campaign.  This exception does not apply if the member
was also involved in the activities of the spender’s political action
committee, makes payments on behalf of the spender, is serving or has served the
candidate in a formal advisory or policy-making position, or is making or has
engaged in strategic or policy-making discussions with the candidate.	f.	The
communication was made in response to an unsolicited request from a political
party leader or an agent of the leader.	g.	The spender employs or is under
contract with a political consultant or pollster who previously rendered
services to the candidate.	3.	Reference to a spender includes the spender’s
agent.  Reference to a candidate includes the candidate’s agent and City
controlled committees.	B.	“Campaign communication” means a communication
that expressly advocates the election or defeat of a clearly identified City
candidate or ballot measure or, taken as a whole and in context, unambiguously
urges a particular result in a City election and is authorized, distributed,
paid for, or behested by a candidate for elected City office, or by a City
controlled committee, a City recall committee, or a City ballot measure
committee.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,362, Eff. 1/30/13.)	C.	“City controlled
committee” means a committee created for City purposes and controlled by an
elected City officer or a candidate for elected City office.  The term includes
City campaign committees, officeholder expense funds, legal defense funds
relating to City office, and recall and ballot measure committees involving City
issues.  The term does not include a committee created for election to or the
holding of a non-City office.	D.	“Citywide office” means the offices of City
Attorney, Controller, or Mayor.	E.	“Communication” means a message that
conveys information or views in a scripted or reproduceable format, including
but not limited to paper, audio, video, telephone, electronic, Internet, web
logs, and social media.	F.	“Elected City Office” means the office of City
Council member, City Attorney, Controller, or Mayor.	G.	“Elected City
officer” means a person who holds elected City office, whether appointed or
elected.	H.	“Fundraising event” means an event designed for political
fundraising, at which contributions for an elected City officer, a candidate for
elected City office, or a City controlled committee are solicited or
received.	I.	“General election” means a regular or special general municipal
election for elected City office.	J.	“Independent expenditure communication”
means a communication that expressly advocates the election or defeat of a
clearly identified City candidate or ballot measure or, taken as a whole and in
context, unambiguously urges a particular result in a City election and is not
authorized, distributed, paid for, or behested by the affected candidate or
committee.  The term includes member communications, as defined in the
Political Reform Act, if any of the following applies:  (Amended by Ord. No.
182,362, Eff. 1/30/13.)	1.	The communication is not a type that is routinely
distributed by the member organization;	2.	The communication is not directed
solely to and intended only for the member organization’s own members;
or	3.	The cost of the communication exceeds the amount that the member
organization routinely spends for that type of communication.	K.	“Legal
defense communication” means a communication permitted for legal defense
committees and authorized, distributed, paid for, or behested by a legal defense
fund committee or the person who controls the committee.	L.	“Non-participating
candidate” means a candidate for elected City office who has declined to
participate in the public matching funds program.	M.	“Officeholder
communication” means a communication permitted for City officeholders and
authorized, distributed, paid for, or behested by a City officeholder or an
officeholder committee.	N.	“Participating candidate” means a candidate for
elected City office who has agreed to participate in the public matching funds
program.	O.	“Political communication” means a campaign communication, an
independent expenditure communication, a legal defense communication, or an
officeholder communication.	P.	“Political Reform Act” means the California
Political Reform Act of 1974 (California Government Code Sections 81000 et seq.)
and the related regulations of the California Fair Political Practices
Commission.	Q.	“Primary election” means a regular or special primary
nominating election for elected City office.	R.	“Qualified contribution”
means a contribution that may be matched with public funds because it meets all
of the following criteria:	1.	The contribution is lawful under State and City
law.	2.	The contribution was received by a participating candidate.	3.	The
contribution was not received from the participating candidate or the
participating candidate’s immediate family.	4.	The contribution was received
from an individual.  Beginning with the 2015 regular City elections, the
contribution was received from an individual residing within the City.	5.	The
contribution is monetary and is not a loan or pledge.	6.	The contribution was
received no later than three months after the date of the election and no
earlier than the following dates:	a.	For regular primary elections, 12 months
prior to the date of the election.	b.	For special primary elections, the later
of 12 months prior to the date of the election or the date the candidate filed a
Declaration of Intent to Solicit and Receive Contributions.	c.	For general
elections, the date on which the candidate was permitted to begin soliciting and
accepting contributions.
