                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PENALTIES. (§ 49.84.12)

  PENALTIES.	(A)	Criminal 	(1)	The civil and administrative penalties set forth
in this section are not exclusive and may be used in addition to those set forth
elsewhere in this Code or by other law.	(B)	Civil Penalties.	(1)	Irrespective of
and cumulative to any criminal conviction for an act of graffiti or any final
adjudication by the Juvenile Court or placement on a supervised program by the
probation officer under the provisions of the Welfare and Institutions Code of
the State of California for such act, any person who violates any provision or
fails to comply with any requirement or provision of this Article, shall be
liable for a civil penalty in a civil action brought by the City Attorney in an
amount not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each violation. Each
day of such conduct and each separate and distinct property victimized by an act
of graffiti shall be considered a separate and distinct violation.  The civil
penalty prescribed by this Subsection may be sought in addition to, and not in
lieu of, any other remedy, including, but not limited to, criminal remedies,
injunctive relief, specific performance, or any other remedy.	(2)	Determining
the Amount.  In determining the amount of the civil penalty, the court shall
consider all relevant circumstances, including but not limited to: costs to the
City relating to cleanup of graffiti caused by such person, costs to law
enforcement incurred in identifying and apprehending such person, special costs
to the City in the form of the payment of any reward in connection with any
criminal action against such person, the degree of offense to the public as
determined by the magnitude, form and visual prominence of the graffiti, the
history of previous violations by the person committing graffiti, the assets,
liabilities and net worth of the person, and any corrective action taken by the
person committing the graffiti.	(3)	Disposition of Penalties Collected.  All
civil penalties collected shall be deposited into the Graffiti Technology and
Recovery Fund established pursuant to Los Angeles Administrative Code Sections
5.552, 5.553 and 5.554.	(C)	Administrative Penalties.	(1)	Any person who
violates any provision or fails to comply with any requirement or provision of
this Article shall be subject to an administrative fine as specified in Section
49.93.	(a)	The administrative fine prescribed by this Subsection may be sought
in addition to, and not in lieu of, any other remedy, including, but not limited
to, criminal remedies, injunctive relief, specific performance, or any other
remedy.	(2)	Disposition of Penalties Collected.  All administrative penalties
collected shall be deposited into the Graffiti Technology and Recovery Fund
established pursuant to Los Angeles Administrative Code Sections 5.552, 5.553
and 5.554.
