                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

NUISANCE ABATEMENT LIEN. (§ 49.84.11)

  NUISANCE ABATEMENT LIEN.	(A)	Summary Abatement.  The City may summarily
abate any nuisance resulting from the defacement of the property of another by
graffiti or any other inscribed material at the expense of the minor or other
person creating, causing, or committing the nuisance and make the expense of
abatement of the nuisance a lien against the property of the person and a
personal obligation against that person.	(1)	The determination of responsibility
shall be presumed by any confession, admission, guilty plea, or plea of nolo
contendere to any violation of Section 594, 594.3, 640.5, 640.6, or 640.7 of the
California Penal Code.	(2)	In the case of a minor, responsibility shall be
presumed by any confession, admission, or by the minor being declared a ward of
the juvenile court pursuant to Section 602 of the Welfare and Institutions Code
by reason of the commission of an act prohibited by Section 594, 594.3, 640.5,
640.6 or 640.7 of the Penal Code	(B)	Joint and Several Liability of Parent(s) or
Guardian(s).  The parent or guardian having custody and control of a minor
committing a nuisance described in Subsection (A), shall be jointly and
severally liable with the minor for the expense of abatement.  The unpaid
expense of abatement of any nuisance resulting from the defacement of the
property of another by graffiti or any other inscribed material shall become a
lien against the property of a parent or guardian having custody and control of
the minor, and a personal obligation against the parent or guardian having
custody and control of the minor.	(C)	Definitions.  For purposes of this
Section, the following definitions apply:	(1)	“Expense of abatement”
includes, but is not limited to, court costs, attorney’s fees, costs of
removal of the graffiti or other inscribed material, costs of repair and
replacement of defaced property, and the law enforcement costs incurred by the
City in identifying and apprehending the minor or other person.	(2)	“Minor”
or “other person” means a minor or other person who has confessed to,
admitted to, or pled guilty or nolo contendere to a violation of  Section 594,
594.3, 640.5, 640.6, or 640.7 of the California Penal Code; or a minor convicted
by final judgment of a violation of Section 594, 594.3, 640.5, 640.6, or 640.7
of the California Penal Code; or a minor declared a ward of the juvenile court
pursuant to Section 602 of the Welfare and Institutions Code by reason of the
commission of an act prohibited by Section 594, 594.3, 640.5, 640.6 or 640.7 of
the Penal Code.	(D)	Procedures.	(1)	Collection of Expenses of Abatement.  Upon
the determination of the expense of abatement, the City, Board of Public Works
or its designated representative, shall send an abatement expense statement to
the responsible person(s) pursuant to Subsection (A), and if applicable,
Subsection (B), above.  Payment shall be due fifteen (15) calendar days from
the service of the abatement expense statement.	(2)	Notice and
Hearing.	(a)	Within ten (10) calendar days of the mailing of the abatement
expense statement, any person served with an abatement expense statement may
file with the City representative who issued the statement, a written request
for a hearing on the correctness, reasonableness, or both of such claim of
abatement costs.	(b)	Upon receipt of the written request for a hearing, the City
representative who issued the statement shall send notice describing the time
and place of such hearing by the United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed
to the requesting party’s last-known address at least five days in advance of
the hearing. 	(c)	At the hearing, upon request, the city representative shall
receive all evidence presented by the responsible person and by the City. 
Thereupon, the City representative shall make such revision, correction, and
modification to the statement as deemed warranted, after which the statement as
submitted, or as revised, corrected, or modified, shall be confirmed.  The
decision of the City representative shall be final.	(d)	Suspension of Abatement
Costs.  The obligation to pay the expenses of abatement otherwise required
under subsection (D)(1) of this section shall be suspended during the pendency
of any hearing provided for under this Subsection.  Upon the City
representative rendering his or her decision following a hearing, payment of the
confirmed or otherwise revised, corrected, or modified abatement expense
statement shall be made within ten (10) calendar days following service of the
City representative’s decision upon the responsible person.	(3)	Lien Against
Property for Unpaid Expenses.	(a)	The City may make the unpaid expenses of
abatement a lien against the property of the person committing a nuisance
described in Subsection (A), above, and, where such person is a minor, against
the property of the parent or guardian having custody and control of such
minor.	(b)	Notice of Intent to Lien.  Notice of Intent to record a lien shall
be given to the minor or other person and to the parent or guardian having
custody and control of the minor prior to the recordation of any lien.  Said
notice shall be served in the same manner as a civil action in accordance with
the Code of Civil Procedure Section 415.10.  If the minor or other person,
and/or the parent or guardian having custody and control of the minor, after
diligent search, cannot be found, the notice may be served by posting a copy of
the Notice in a conspicuous place upon the property for a period ten (10) days
and publication thereof in a newspaper of general circulation published in the
county in which the property is located pursuant to Government Code Section
6062.	(c)	Recordation.  A graffiti nuisance abatement lien shall be recorded in
the County Recorder’s Office in the county in which the parcel of land is
located and from the date of recording shall have the force, effect, and
priority of a judgment lien.	(d)	Specific Data.  A graffiti nuisance abatement
lien authorized by this section shall specify the amount of the lien; the name
of the agency on whose behalf the lien is imposed; the date of the abatement
order; the street address, legal description, and assessor’s parcel number of
the parcel on which the lien is imposed; and the name and address of the
recorded owner of the parcel.	(e)	Discharge.  If the lien is discharged,
released, or satisfied through payment or foreclosure, notice of the discharge
containing the information specified in Subsection (d), above, shall be recorded
by the governmental agency.  A graffiti nuisance abatement lien and the release
of the lien shall be indexed in the grantor-grantee index.	(f)	A graffiti
nuisance abatement lien may be satisfied through foreclosure in an action
brought by the City.	(g)	The City may recover from the property owner any costs
incurred regarding the processing and recording of the lien and providing notice
to the property owner as part of its foreclosure action to enforce the
lien.	(E)	Alternative Procedure for Assessment.	(1)	As an alternative to the
nuisance lien described in subsection (A) and (B), above, the City may make the
costs associated with the expense of abatement, as defined in Subsection (C),
above, a special assessment against the parcel of land owned by the person
committing a nuisance described in Subsection (A), above, and, where such person
is a minor, against the property of the parent or guardian having custody and
control of such minor.	(2)	The assessment may be collected at the same time and
in the same manner as ordinary municipal taxes are collected and shall be
subject to the same penalties and the same procedure and sale in case of
delinquency as provided for ordinary municipal taxes pursuant to Government Code
Section 38773.7.	(F)	Second or Subsequent Civil or Criminal Judgment.	(1)	Upon
the entry of a second or subsequent civil or criminal judgment within a two-year
period finding that an owner of property or a minor or other person as defined
in this Section is responsible for a condition that may be abated in accordance
with this provision, except of conditions abated pursuant to Section 17980 of
the Health and Safety Code, the court may order that person to pay treble the
costs of the abatement.
