                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

GRAFFITI REMOVAL AT CITY EXPENSE. (§ 49.84.7)

  GRAFFITI REMOVAL AT CITY EXPENSE.	(A)	Authorization to Use City Funds. 
Whenever the Board of Public Works or its designated representative determines
that graffiti is so located on public or private property within the City so as
to be capable of being viewed by persons utilizing any public right-of-way in
the City, the Board of Public Works or its designated representative is
authorized to provide for the removal of the graffiti solely at the City’s
expense, without reimbursement from the property owner upon whose property the
graffiti has been applied.	(B)	Limitations to Use of City Funds.  The use of
City funds as authorized in this section is limited to the following
cases.	(1)	The Board of Public Works or its designated representative must
approve each proposed use of City funds for the removal of graffiti. 	(2)	In
removing the graffiti, the painting or repair shall be limited to the minimum
necessary to properly restore the defaced area.	(3)	Where a structure is owned
by a public entity other than the City, the removal of the graffiti may be
authorized only after securing the consent of the public entity having
jurisdiction over the structure as set forth in subsection (C), below.	(4)	Where
a structure is privately owned, the removal of the graffiti by City personnel or
by a private contractor under the direction of the City may be authorized only
after securing the consent of the owner as set forth in subsection (C),
below.	(5)	The City reserves the right to recover City costs and expenses
pursuant to this chapter, Penal Code Section 594, et seq., Code of Civil
Procedure Section 731, Civil Code Section 1714.1, Government Code Section 38771,
et seq., Welfare and Institutions Code Section 742.10, et seq., and any other
remedies provided by law.	(C)	Securing Consent.  The City shall obtain the
written consent of the owner of the affected public or private structures prior
to removal of graffiti.  Owners may consent in advance to City entry onto
private property for graffiti removal purposes.  The City will make forms for
such consent available.  The consent form shall be approved by the City and
shall:	(1)	Authorize entry of City employees or contractors on the affected
property to accomplish the removal of the material;	(2)	Assign to the City any
cause or causes of action which the owner may have against any person or persons
who deface said property with graffiti; and	(3)	Hold the City, its officers,
employees and contractors harmless from all liability arising out of the entry
on the property or the work of removing the material.	(D)	In any instance where
the owner of the affected property or structure caused, materially contributed,
or voluntarily consented to the placement of the graffiti, the owner may be held
financially responsible pursuant to Section 49.84.8 of this Article.
