                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING. (§ 49.84.10)

  ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING.	(A)	Administrative Fines.	(1)	Whenever an enforcement
officer determines that a violation of a provision of this Article has occurred,
the enforcement officer is authorized to issue a notice of violation to the
responsible person(s).  If the responsible person is a minor, the enforcement
officer is authorized to issue a notice of violation to the parent(s) or
guardian(s) having custody and control of the minor.	(2)	Each violation of any
provision of this Article and each separate offense designated by this Article
shall be subject to an administrative fine, as provided for in this
Section.	(3)	The amount of the administrative fine shall be determined by the
enforcement officer, based upon the penalty schedule set forth in Subdivision
(4) of this Section, subject to the following limitations:	(a)	Where the
violation would otherwise be an infraction, the administrative fine or penalty
shall not exceed the maximum fine or penalty amounts for infractions set forth
in subdivision (b) of Section 36900 of the California Government Code.	(b)	For
all other violations of this Article, the amount of the administrative fine
shall not exceed one-thousand dollars ($1,000).	(4)	The administrative fine
levied for a violation of this Article shall be in the following
amounts:	(a)	For the first offense by a fine of two hundred fifty dollars
($250); or	(b)	For a second offense by a fine of five hundred dollars ($500);
or	(c)	For a third or any subsequent offense by a fine of one thousand dollars
($1,000).	(B)	Service Procedures for Issuing Administrative Citations.  An
administrative citation in a form approved by the City may be issued to the
responsible party by an enforcement officer for violations of those sections set
forth in this Article in the following manner:	(1)	Personal Service.  In any
case where an administrative citation is issued to an individual the enforcement
officer shall attempt to:	(a)	Locate the individual and serve the administrative
citation to the responsible person or party.  If the responsible person is a
minor, the enforcement officer shall also attempt to serve the administrative
citation on the parent(s) or guardian(s) having custody and control of the
minor.	(b)	Obtain on the administrative citation the signature of the person in
violation of this Code.	(c)	If the responsible person or party served refuses or
fails to sign the administrative citation, the failure or refusal to sign shall
not affect the validity of the citation or of subsequent
proceedings.	(2)	Service of Citation by Mail.  If the enforcement officer is
unable to locate the responsible person for the violation, the administrative
citation shall be mailed to the responsible person by certified mail, postage
prepaid, return receipt requested.  If the responsible person is a minor, the
administrative citation shall be mailed to the parent(s) or guardian(s) having
custody and control of the minor by certified mail, postage prepaid, return
receipt requested.  Simultaneously, the same notice may be sent by regular
mail.  If a notice sent by certified mail is returned unsigned, then service
shall be deemed effective pursuant to regular mail, provided the notice that was
sent by regular mail is not returned.	(C)	Contents of Administrative
Citations.  Administrative citations shall contain all of the following
information:	(1)	The date and location of the violation and the approximate time
the violation was observed;	(2)	The Code Section violated and a description of
how the Section was violated;	(3)	The action required to correct the
violation;	(4)	The consequences of failing to correct the violation;	(5)	The
amount of penalty imposed for the violation;	(6)	Information regarding the
procedure to contest the citation;	(7)	The signature of the enforcement officer
and the signature of the responsible person if that person can be located and
will sign the citation, as set forth in this section.	(D)	Satisfaction of
Administrative Citation.	(1)	Upon receipt of a citation, the responsible party
shall either:	(a)	Pay the Penalty.  Payment of the penalty waives the
responsible party’s right to the administrative hearing and appeal process
pursuant to Paragraph (d), below; or	(b)	Perform Community Service or Parenting
Classes.  Any responsible person(s) served with an administrative citation
pursuant to this Section may request to perform community service or attend
parenting classes in lieu of payment of the administrative penalty pursuant to
subdivision (F) of this Section; or	(c)	Remedy the Violation.  If the violation
is of a nature that it can be remedied, and the responsible party remedies it
within the time indicated on the citation, upon providing proof of correction to
the enforcement officer the responsible party shall pay only the administrative
reimbursement portion of the penalty; or	(d)	Request an   If the responsible
party chooses to contest the citation, the party shall submit a request to do so
no later than 15 calendar days, excluding weekends and holidays, after service
of the citation.  The request shall be submitted in writing as directed on the
citation and shall include a statement of reasons why the citation is being
contested.  The request shall be accompanied by a deposit in the full amount of
the penalty, inclusive of the administrative reimbursement portion, or written
proof of financial hardship, which at a minimum must include tax returns,
financial statements, bank account records, salary records or similar
documentation demonstrating that the responsible party is unable to deposit the
penalty.  A hearing will not be scheduled unless the full amount of the penalty
is deposited, or the City finds the responsible party financially unable to do
so and waives the deposit requirement.	(2)	In the event the responsible party
fails or refuses to select and satisfy any of the alternatives set forth in
Paragraphs (a), (b) (c) or (d) above, then the penalty shall be immediately due
and owing to the City and may be collected in any manner allowed by law for
collection of a debt.	(E)	Administrative Hearings and Appeal
Process.	(1)	Appointment of Administrative Hearing Officer.  Within 180 days of
the effective date of this Section, the City Attorney’s Office, with the City
Council’s approval, shall create an administrative hearing and appeals process
that is consistent with this Article and with due process principles, including
the selection and appointment of one or more independent Administrative Hearing
Officers, who shall be responsible for conducting administrative hearings
authorized under this Article.  Until such time, no enforcement officer may
issue an administrative citation under this Section.	(2)	Pre-hearing Dismissal
of Citation.  The City may dismiss an administrative citation at any time if it
is determined to have been issued in error.	(3)	Time for Administrative
Hearing.  The administrative hearing shall be scheduled no later than 90 days
after receipt of the request for a hearing to contest the citation.  The
responsible party will be notified in writing at least ten days prior to the
date of the hearing by first class mail of the date and time of the
hearing.	(4)	Request for Continuance of Hearing.  The responsible person may
request one continuance of the hearing, but in no event may the hearing begin
later than 90 days after receipt of the request for hearing from the responsible
person.	(5)	Failure to Attend Administrative Hearing.  The individual to whom
an administrative citation is issued, or that person’s representative, may
attend the hearing in person, or in lieu of attending may submit an Appearance
by Written Declaration on a form provided by the City for that purpose.	(a)	If
the cited individual or his or her representative fails to attend the scheduled
hearing, or fails to submit an Appearance by Written Declaration on the form
provided by the City for that purpose, he or she shall be deemed to have waived
his or her right to an administrative hearing.  Under these circumstances, the
Administrative Hearing Officer shall dismiss the challenge to the administrative
citation, and shall issue a written notice to that effect.  An individual whose
challenge to an administrative citation is dismissed under this section shall be
deemed not to have availed himself or herself of the right to an administrative
hearing as provided in this Article.	(b)	An individual who has been issued an
administrative citation and who has requested an administrative hearing to
challenge the citation as provided in this Article may request in writing that
his or her challenge to the citation be dismissed and the hearing canceled. 
Upon receipt of a request to dismiss a challenge to the administrative citation,
the City shall cancel the pending hearing, and issue a written notice to that
effect.  Any individual who requests the dismissal of a challenge to an
administrative citation under this Section shall be deemed never to have availed
himself or herself of the right to an administrative hearing as provided in this
Article.	(6)	Procedures at Administrative Hearing.  Administrative hearings are
informal, and formal rules of evidence and discovery do not apply.  Each party
shall have the opportunity to present evidence in support of his or her case and
to cross-examine witnesses.  The City bears the burden of proof at an
administrative hearing to establish a violation.  The citation is prima facie
evidence of the violation and the enforcement officer who issued the citation is
not required to participate in the hearing.  The Administrative Hearing Officer
shall use preponderance of the evidence as the standard of evidence in deciding
the issues.  Written and oral evidence submitted at the hearing shall be
submitted under penalty of perjury.  Documentary and other tangible evidence
must be authenticated to the satisfaction of the Administrative Hearing
Officer.	(7)	Decision of Administrative Hearing Officer.  At the conclusion of
the hearing or within 15 days thereafter, the Administrative Hearing Officer
shall render a decision as follows:	(a)	Determine that the violation for which
the citation was issued occurred, and impose a fine in the amount set forth in
the citation, inclusive of the administrative reimbursement portion, and if the
violation has not been corrected as of the date of the hearing, order correction
of the violation; or	(b)	Determine that the violation for which the citation was
issued occurred, but that the responsible party has introduced credible evidence
of mitigating circumstances warranting imposition of a lesser penalty than that
prescribed in the citation, or no penalty at all, and impose a lesser fine, if
any, and if the violation has not been corrected as of the date of the hearing,
order that the violation be corrected; or	(c)	Determine that the violation for
which the citation was issued did not occur or that the condition did not
constitute a violation of the Code.	(8)	Issuance of Administrative Order.  The
Administrative Hearing Officer shall issue a written decision entitled
“Administrative Order” no later than 15 days after the date on which the
administrative hearing concludes.  The Administrative Order shall be served
upon the responsible person by first class mail, or if that method fails, by any
one of the other methods set forth in this Section.  The Administrative Order
shall become final on the date of mailing or other service, and shall notify the
responsible person of his or her right to appeal as provided below in this
Section.  The Administrative Order shall also (i) either set a deadline for
compliance with its terms, in the event that the responsible person fails to
file an appeal, in no event less than 20 days from the date of mailing or other
service, or (ii) if the hearing officer determines as described in Subdivisions
(7)(b) or (7)(c) immediately above, and the responsible party has deposited the
penalty with the City, order a partial or full refund of the deposit.	(9)	Appeal
of Administrative Order.  Within 20 days after mailing or other service of the
Administrative Order to the responsible person, he or she may seek review of the
Administrative Order by filing a notice of appeal with the Superior Court,
pursuant to California Government Code Section 53069.4.  The responsible person
shall serve upon the City Clerk either in person or by first-class mail a copy
of the notice of appeal.  If the responsible person fails to timely file a
notice of appeal, the Administrative Order shall be deemed final.	(F)	Request to
Perform Community Service or Parenting Classes.  Any responsible person(s)
served with an administrative citation and/or issued an Administrative Order
pursuant to this Section may request to perform community service or attend
parenting classes in lieu of payment of the administrative penalty.  Community
service and parenting classes must be in a program approved by the issuing
department.	(1)	Written Request.  Any eligible responsible person(s) served
with an administrative citation who requests permission to perform community
service or attend parenting classes in lieu of payment of the administrative
penalty, as provided in Subsection (F), must make the request in writing and
file it with the issuing department no later than fifteen (15) calendar days,
excluding weekends and holidays, after service of the citation.  Any eligible
responsible person(s) issued an Administrative Order who requests permission to
perform community service or attend parenting classes in lieu of payment of the
administrative penalty, as provided in Subsection (F), must make the request in
writing and file it with the issuing department no later than twenty (20) days
after mailing or other service of the administrative Order.   All requests made
pursuant to Subsection (F) must include the address of the responsible person(s)
for the purpose of correspondence by the issuing department.	(2)	Notification. 
The issuing department shall notify the responsible person(s) by first class
mail, postage prepaid, whether the request to perform community service or
attend parenting classes has been approved, and if approved, shall identify the
program(s) that the responsible person must complete, and the date by which such
program shall be completed.  The decision to grant or deny the request shall be
in the sole discretion of the issuing department.  In the event the issuing
department denies the request to perform community service or attend parenting
classes, the administrative penalty otherwise payable as set forth in the
administrative citation and/or Administrative Order previously served on the
responsible person(s) shall be made by the date specified in the notice denying
the request to perform community service or attend parenting
classes.	(3)	Suspension of Administrative Penalty.  The obligation to pay the
administrative penalty otherwise required shall be suspended during the time
period provided for completion of the approved program as set forth in the
written notification approving the request sent by the issuing department under
Paragraph (2), above.	(4)	Proof of Completion.  The responsible person(s) shall
provide proof of completion of the approved program by submitting, to the
issuing department within five (5) calendar days following the date by which the
program was to be completed, a certificate of completion issued by the program
provider.  Failure to present such proof within the required time period shall
result in the reinstatement of the administrative penalty otherwise due as
stated in the administrative citation or Administrative Order without further
notification by the issuing department.  Payment of the amount due shall be
made within seven (7) calendar days of the date by which the program was to be
completed as specified in the notice provided under Paragraph (2),
above.	(G)	Failure to Comply with Administrative Order.  In addition to any
other remedy provided by law, if the responsible person fails to comply with the
Administrative Order, the City may use any other legal remedy available to gain
compliance with the Administrative Order.	(H)	Disposition of Collected
Administrative Fines.  The fines recovered pursuant to this section shall be
deposited into the Graffiti Technology and Recovery Fund established pursuant to
Los Angeles Administrative Code Sections 5.552, 5.553 and
5.554.	(I)	Definitions.  For purposes of this Section, the following
definitions apply:	(1)	“Enforcement Officer” means any peace officer or
probation officer delegated with the power to enforce any provision of this
Code.	(2)	“Issuing Department” means the City department that has authority
and responsibility for enforcing and prosecuting the Code section that is the
subject of the administrative citation.	(3)	“Responsible Person” means any
person who is responsible for, or alleged to be responsible for, a violation
and/or any parent or guardian having custody and control of a minor committing
such violation, on a joint and several basis with such minor, provided such
minor and parent or guardian are each served with notice of violation.
