                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEFINITIONS. (§ 49.84.2)

  DEFINITIONS.	(A)	“Act of graffiti” means an act which causes any form of
unauthorized inscription, word, figure or design to be marked, etched,
scratched, drawn, sprayed, painted or otherwise affixed on any structural
component of any building, structure or other facility or upon any other
property, regardless of its content or nature and regardless of the nature of
the material of that structural component or property.	(B)	“Aerosol paint
container” means any aerosol container, which is adapted or made for the
purpose of applying spray painting, or other substance capable of defacing
property.	(C)	“City” means the city of Los Angeles.	(D)	“Etching cream”
means any caustic cream, gel, liquid, or solution capable, by means of a
chemical action, of defacing, damaging, or destroying hard surfaces in a manner
similar to acid.	(E)	“Graffiti” means any form of unauthorized inscription,
word, figure or design which is marked, etched, scratched, drawn, sprayed,
painted or otherwise affixed to or on any surface of public or private property,
including but not limited to, buildings, walls, signs, structures or places, or
other surfaces, regardless of the nature of the material of that structural
component.	(F)	“Graffiti implement” means any implement capable of marking a
surface to create graffiti, including but not limited to aerosol paint
containers, markers, etching devices, and gum labels.	(G)	“Gum label” means
any material such as, but not limited to, decals, stickers, posters or labels
which contain a substance commonly known as adhesive or glue, which cannot be
removed from the surface in an intact condition and with minimal
effort.	(H)	“Marker” means any indelible or permanent marker with tips
exceeding four millimeters in width or similar implement containing ink that is
not water-soluble.	(I)	“Owner” means any person, firm, corporation,
partnership or other entity, owning property either public or private, whose
name or title appears on the last equalized assessment role with the Los Angeles
County Recorder’s Office, or the lessee, tenant or other person having control
or possession of the property.
