                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEFINITIONS. (§ 52.00)

  DEFINITIONS.

	For the purposes of this article, the following words and phrases are defined,
and shall be construed as hereinafter set out, unless it shall be apparent from
the context that they have a different meaning:

	(1)	“Board” shall mean the Board of Police Commissioners.

	(2)	“Official Police Officer’s Badge” shall mean badges of the sizes,
types and designs last approved by resolution of the Board adopted subsequent to
January 1, 1940 for the use of Regular Police Officers and Reserve Police
Officers.  Each badge shall bear on the face thereof the title or rank of the
person to whom it was issued.  All badges of each title or rank shall be
consecutively numbered and the numbers shall appear on the face of each badge. 
Where a Regular or Reserve Police Officer possesses more than one Official
Police Officer’s Badge, those badges shall bear the same badge number. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 175,997, Eff. 7/7/04.)

	(3)	(None)

	(4)	“Special Police Officer’s Badge” shall mean a badge of the size, type
and design last designated by resolution of the Board for the use of persons
commissioned by the Board to act as Special Police Officers. Such badge shall
have enameled on the face thereof “Special” in addition to any other words
or device and shall so differ in shape and design from the official police
officer’s badge as to be, when displayed or worn, readily distinguishable
therefrom. All such badges shall be consecutively numbered and the number shall
appear on the face of each such badge.

	(5)	“Regular Police Officers” shall mean all regular police officer members
of the Police Department of this city appointed under civil service rules and
regulations and duly commissioned and sworn in as provided by law to perform the
duties as peace officers and not retired from active duty, suspended or
discharged; under whatever designation they may be elsewhere described.

	(6)	“Civilian Employee” shall mean all civilian employees of the Police
Department of this City appointed under civil service rules and regulations,
other than regular police officer members. (Added by Ord. No. 112,577, Eff.
2/12/59.)

	(7)	“Civilian Badge” shall mean a badge to be readily distinguishable from
the official police office’s badge. Such badge shall bear on the face thereof
the civil service classification of the employee to whom such badge is assigned
and shall be of a design approved by the Board. (Added by Ord. No. 112,577, Eff.
2/12/59.)
