                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

NEWS MEDIA IDENTIFICATION CARDS – ISSUANCE OF. (§ 52.16)

  NEWS MEDIA IDENTIFICATION CARDS – ISSUANCE OF.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 150,115, Eff. 10/20/77. )	A.	The Board is hereby
authorized, and may delegate the authority to the Department, to issue news
media identification cards (hereinafter “cards”) only to those whom the
Board or the Department determines to be actual news-gathering representatives
of newspapers or publications, news services, radio or television stations
maintaining a regular news service or to self-employed reporters and
photographers who regularly cover news events at which police and/or fire lines
within the City of Los Angeles are established. The exclusive purpose of such
cards shall be to enable the bearer thereof to pass through established police
and fire lines in order to cover news events occurring behind such lines
.	B.	Each card shall be issued either for the current calendar year, or for a
lesser period and shall bear upon its face:	1.	The words “News Media”
imprinted in bold letters.	2.	A distinct number.	3.	The name of the newspaper,
news service, radio or television station, or the name of the self-employed
reporter or photographer represented.	4.	A photograph of the holder.	5.	The
right index fingerprint of the holder.	6.	The signature of the holder.	7.	The
signature of the Chief of Police.	8.	The year of issuance imprinted in bold
numbers.	9.	The age, weight, height, color of hair, and color of eyes of the
holder.	C.	No card shall be issued until application shall have been made to the
Board or the Department (if the Board has delegated authority to the
Department). An applicant may be required to furnish the following
information:	1.	The name, residence address, and residence telephone number of
the applicant.	2.	The age, weight, height, color of hair and color of eyes of
the applicant.	3.	The date of the application.	4.	The reason for the issuance of
said card.	5.	If the applicant represents a newspaper, news service, radio or
television station, the name, address and telephone number of the newspaper,
news service, radio or television station represented.	6.	If the applicant
represents a newspaper, news service, radio or television station, the exact
employment relationship between the applicant and the newspaper, publication,
news service with the verification of the same and of the fact that the
applicant is an actual news-gathering representative thereof by the manager of
said newspaper, publication, news service, radio or television station.	7.	If
the applicant is a self-employed reporter or photographer, the past experience
and demonstrated need of the applicant to cover on a regular basis news events
at which police and/or fire lines are established.	D.	Each applicant shall be
cleared through the Records and Identification Division, and a space on the
application shall be provided for the notation of such clearance. The
application shall also contain a space for written approval, or disapproval, by
the Chief of Police and the reasons therefor.	E.	If any applicant is denied a
card by the Department, he or she may appeal such denial to the Board, which
shall promptly review the reasons for such denial and issue a decision either
affirming or overruling the Department.	F.	Temporary cards, the duration of
which shall last no more than one month, may be issued to news media
representatives who do not qualify under Section A hereof.	G.	Appropriate
guidelines interpreting the implementation of this ordinance shall be approved
by the Board. Said guidelines shall be made available upon request to all
applicants for cards.	H.	The fee for issuance of a card shall be $24.00,
provided however that no fee shall be charged for the re-issuance of such
card.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,919, Eff. 12/2/11.)
