                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

RETIRED OFFICERS – AUTHORIZED BADGES. (§ 52.27.1)

  RETIRED OFFICERS – AUTHORIZED BADGES.	(a)	Notwithstanding any other
provisions of this article, any person who has been, during his lifetime, a duly
and regularly appointed, commissioned and sworn police officer of this city and
who was honorably retired from such position prior to June 10, 1940, may retain
and carry any badge lawfully issued to him or otherwise lawfully acquired by him
during his service or incident to his retirement, provided the word
“RETIRED” is plainly shown on such badge, by being engraved or embossed
thereon or otherwise permanently affixed thereto.	(b)	Retirement.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 181,594, Eff. 4/10/11.)  Pursuant to California Penal Code Section
538d, Subsection (d), the Board of Police Commissioners is authorized to issue a
badge to any regular sworn police officer who is honorably retired, which that
retired officer may carry.  The badge shall be especially adopted or approved
for this specific purpose by the Board.	1.	The badge shall contain the words
“Honorably Retired”, clearly visible in capital letters, blue in color, on a
ribbon to be permanently affixed to the badge directly above the scroll
containing the rank of the officer.  This badge shall be known as the
“Retired Officer’s Badge”.	2.	Upon the return of a retired officer to
active duty or upon demand of the Board, any Retired Officer’s Badge
previously issued to that person shall be returned to the Board.	3.	The Board is
authorized to revoke a badge issued pursuant to this Section in the event of
misuse or abuse.	(c)	Any honorary badge or other badge lawfully acquired
indicating that the bearer occupied public office in the City, upon which
appears the bearer’s name  and which plainly shows the word “RETIRED” may
be retained if lawfully acquired prior to June 10, 1940, by any person who prior
to that date held any of the following offices in the government of this
City:	1.	Mayor,	2.	Secretary to the Mayor,	3.	Commissioner of any
Board,	4.	Secretary to any Board,	5.	Secretary to the Chief of
Police,	6.	Councilman,	7.	Any other elective office,	8.	Managing officer of any
department.	(d)	Nothing in this section shall be deemed to authorize the use of
any badge herein mentioned for any unlawful purpose and any such badge so used
may be confiscated by the Board.	(e)	Any badge mentioned in this section shall
be subject to confiscation by the Board if worn or displayed by any person other
than the true owner, and shall be returned to the true owner only upon a showing
that such use was without consent, express or implied.
