                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

BADGES – OTHER DEPARTMENTS. (§ 52.32)

  BADGES – OTHER DEPARTMENTS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 172,692, Eff. 8/8/99.)	(a)	Uniform Departmental Badge. 
“Uniform departmental Badge” shall mean a badge, to be readily
distinguishable from the official police officer’s badge, of a design selected
by the Purchasing Agent and approved by the Council for the use of departments
of this City other than the Police Department, the Fire Department and the
Office of the City Attorney.	(b)	Badges Issued to Other Than Elected Officials
and Members of Boards and Commissions.  The provisions of this subdivision
apply to the issuance of uniform departmental badges to other than elected
officials and members of boards and commissions:	1.	Except as authorized in the
appropriate departmental personnel ordinance, no uniform departmental badge
shall be issued to, or be carried, worn or displayed by any person employed by
any department whose funds are under the control of the City Council.  The
respective boards of departments given control of their own funds by the Charter
may designate the officers and employees entitled to use badges under the
restrictions set forth in this subsection.	2.	No uniform departmental badge
shall be issued to or be used, worn or carried by any person unless his or her
duties involve the active enforcement of law, or unless he or she performs other
public duties which, in the judgment of the board or officer in control of the
department or office are such as to require that such person wear or carry a
badge for purposes of identification.	3.	Uniform departmental badges shall be
issued only by the managing officers of the respective departments or offices. 
Such badges shall be consecutively numbered in each department or office.  The
managing officer of each department or office shall keep records showing the
number of each badge, the date of its issuance, and the name and residence
address of the person to whom issued.  Each badge shall remain the property of
the City and must be returned to the managing officer at the conclusion of the
holder’s service or upon his or her being assigned duties not requiring the
use of the badge.	4.	Each officer or employee to whom a badge is issued must
reimburse the City for the cost thereof if the badge is lost or destroyed
through his or her negligence, or if the badge is not turned in to the managing
officer at the termination of employment.	5.	Issuance of identification disks is
authorized and any City employee may, by order of the respective officers or
boards in control of their departments or offices, be permitted or required
while performing their duties to wear identification disks devoid of
ornamentation and containing only plain stamped letters and figures calculated
to identify the wearer of his or her position.  Such disks must be no more than
two inches in diameter.	6.	When the holder of any badge, the use of which is
authorized under this subsection, is honorably retired, the same or another
badge may be reissued to him or her, provided there is permanently affixed
thereto or engraved or embossed thereon, at his or her expense, the word
“RETIRED” and figures showing his or her term of service. Such badge holder
must reimburse the City for the cost of the badge.	(c)	Badges Issued to Elected
Officials and Members of Boards and Commissions.  (Amended by Ord. No. 176,102,
Eff. 8/23/04.)  The provisions of this subsection shall apply to elected
officials and to members of the Board of Police Commissioners, Board of Fire
Commissioners, Board of Airport Commissioners, Board of Harbor Commissioners,
and Board of Water and Power Commissioners.  Members of all other boards and
commissions shall not be issued badges.	1.	The City Clerk shall be responsible
for purchasing, issuing and record-keeping related to badges issued to elected
officials and members of City boards and commissions.  The City Clerk shall
utilize such forms and procedures as deemed necessary and appropriate to satisfy
the responsibilities assigned to that Office under this subsection.	2.	The City
Clerk shall issue badges to the incumbent in each of the following City
offices:  Mayor, City Attorney, City Controller, and Member of the City
Council.  When any such elected official leaves office the same or another
badge may be reissued to the official, provided there is permanently affixed
thereto or engraved or embossed thereon the word “RETIRED” and figures
showing his or her term of service.	3.	Requests from boards or commissions for
the issuance of badges shall be submitted to the City Clerk for referral to the
appropriate Council Committee for review and recommendation to the full
Council.  Upon Council approval, the individual in question shall be issued a
badge.  However before the issuance of the badge, the person being issued the
badge shall be required to read a document which sets forth the terms and
conditions imposed on the issuance of said badge, and shall sign that document
acknowledging the receipt of the badge and the reading of the terms and
conditions.  The terms and conditions shall include, but not be limited to, the
following:	a.	The badge is the property of the City of Los Angeles;	b.	Upon
leaving the board or commission, the badge shall be collected and forwarded to
the City Clerk, who, upon request from the board or commission, shall reissue
the same or another badge to the departing commissioner, provided the badge is
permanently encased in plexiglass or other substance more than twice its size
and from which it cannot be removed, the badge is engraved or embossed with the
word “RETIRED” and figures showing his or her term of service, and, it
conforms to any additional control measures and mechanisms to prevent misuse as
instituted by the City Clerk; the recipient of such badge shall reimburse the
City for the cost of the badge;	c.	Loss of the badge shall be reported
immediately to the City Clerk in writing, with replacement at the expense of the
person to whom the badge was issued;	d.	The badge may be used only during
activities related to the responsibilities of the board or
commission.	(d)	Unauthorized Badges – City Officers and Employees.  No
officer or employee of this City shall wear, carry or use, within or under color
of the performance of his or her official duties, any badge which he or she is
not expressly authorized to use by this Code.  All unauthorized badges must be
returned to the managing officers of the respective departments or
offices.	(e)	Persons Other Than City Officers and Employees.  No person other
than a City officer or employee shall wear, carry or use any badge or other
insignia of office or employment in the government of this City, or any badge,
identification card or insignia which is calculated to indicate that the holder
is an officer or employee of this City, provided, however, that this provision
shall not apply if the possession and use of such badge, card or insignia is
expressly permitted by ordinance.
