                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

USE OF OFFICIAL POLICE TITLES BY PRIVATE AGENCIES – SIMILAR SUBTERFUGES –
PROHIBITED. (§ 52.37.1)

  USE OF OFFICIAL POLICE TITLES BY PRIVATE AGENCIES – SIMILAR SUBTERFUGES –
PROHIBITED.	(a)	“Chief Detectives,” “Chief of Detective Bureau.” No
person shall use the title “Chief of Detectives” or “Chief of Detective
Bureau” alone or in connection with any other term, phrase, symbol, initial or
language, in carrying on any private business, employment or activity.	(b)	Other
Police Titles. No person shall, in connection with any private business,
employment or activity, use the title “Chief of Police,” “Police Chief,”
“Detective” or any other title or designation whatever calculated to
indicate an official connection with the Police Department of this city or with
the police force of any other government or government agency, unless
accompanied by additional language clearly displaying without the use of
initials or symbols, the identity of the private agency or employer on whose
behalf the user of the title or designation is acting or purporting to
act.	(c)	Police Operations. No person, other than a regular police officer of
the City of Los Angeles, shall, for any purpose whatsoever, represent himself,
of falsely represent another, to be a member of the Police Department of this
city, or use any sign, word, language or device calculated to induce a false or
mistaken belief that he is acting or purporting to act on behalf of the Police
Department of this city within the scope of any real or purported duty
thereof.	(d)	Collections, etc. No person other than a regular police officer of
this city, acting within the scope and course of his official duties, shall use
any sign, badge, title or designation, or make any express or implied
representation, calculated to induce the belief that he is a member of the
police force of this city, or connected therewith in any way, in connection with
any activity directed toward the collection of any money or debt, or the
repossessing, recovering, or taking of anything of value, or for any purpose of
private gain whatsoever.	(e)	Civil Immunities. No special police officer shall,
by virtue of any commission as such heretofore or hereafter issued under this
chapter or pursuant to any other law or ordinance, be deemed to be an officer,
agent, employee or representative of the City of Los Angeles while engaging in
any activity of any character whatsoever undertaken for private hire, profit or
reward, or while performing any act done in the course of his own business or
affairs, or while performing any act done or undertaken in connection with or in
furtherance of, any private employment, business or undertaking for which such
special officer is hired or engaged, nor shall any such commission be construed
to confer upon the holders any privilege or immunity not expressly granted by
this code, other than the authority to arrest for crime under Sec. 836 of the
Penal Code, and the right to be armed as a peace officer, subject, in both
respects, to such rules and regulations of the Board of Police Commissioners as
may relate to special police officers.	Any commission or appointment as special
police officer which is claimed to convey, expressly or by implication, any
immunity inuring to the benefit of the holder or any other person, contrary to
any of the objects and purposes of this section, shall be void, and its grant or
issuance shall be deemed to be in excess of the power and authority of the
Board, whether heretofore or hereafter made.
SEC.  52.42.  RECORDS CONFIDENTIAL.	(a)	The statements, photographs and
fingerprints hereinbefore provided for shall not be open to inspection by the
public, or by any person other than a regularly employed peace or law
enforcement officer. Any such photograph, or duplicates thereof, may be
exhibited to persons other than peace officers of the City for the purpose of
assisting in identifying perpetrators of any crime. Copies of said statements,
photographs and fingerprints may be transmitted to the sheriff of any county of
the State of California, to the head of any organized police department of any
municipality in said state, or to the head of any department of the State of
California engaging in the enforcement of any criminal law of this state, or to
the head of any federal law enforcement agency, or to any sheriff or chief of
police of a municipality, or to the head of any other law-enforcement agency of
any state in any state or territory outside the State of California, when
request is made in writing by such sheriff or other head of a law-enforcement
agency asking for the record of a certain person named therein, or for the
record of a person whose photograph or fingerprints reasonably correspond with
Photographs or fingerprints submitted with such request, and stating that such
record is deemed necessary for the use of such law enforcement officer or agency
in or concerning the investigation of any crime, or any person who is accused of
committing a crime, or any crime which is reported to have been committed, and
further stating that the record will be used only for such purpose.	(b)	Any
police officer or other employee of the Police Department who discloses to any
person any information contained in any statement required to be filed under the
provisions of Sections 52.38 to 52.43 inclusive, otherwise than in the regular
course of his duties, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.	(c)	Nothing contained in
Sections 52.38 to 52.43 inclusive, shall prevent the Police of Chief from
furnishing to the sheriff of any county, the Chief of Police of any
municipality, or the head of any other law-enforcing agency which maintains any
system of registration of convicted persons copies of the statements required to
be filed under the provisions of Sections 52.38 to 52.43 inclusive, together
with photographs and fingerprints of persons making such statements when and if
such sheriff, chief of police, or other head of a law-enforcing agency furnishes
to the Chief of Police of this City copies of statements, photographs and
fingerprints procured by him, and it is hereby made the duty of such Chief of
Police to arrange for the exchange of such information.	(d)	Any police officer
or employee of the Police Department may, any other provisions herein
notwithstanding, furnish to persons other than peace officers, photographs,
fingerprints, descriptions and other data relative to persons registered as
convicted persons, as defined by Sec. 52.38(d)1 of this code, for the purpose of
furnishing the information required by Sec. 41.11.2 of this code, or for the
purpose of securing and effecting the enforcement of said section; and the
furnishing of such information, pictures or fingerprints shall be within the
regular course of his duties.
