                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PRIVATE PATROL SERVICE – REGULATIONS. (§ 52.34)

  PRIVATE PATROL SERVICE – REGULATIONS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,375, Eff. 8/5/00.)	(a)	Definitions.	For the purpose of
this article, certain terms used herein are defined as follows:	(1)	Private
Patrol Service.  The term “private patrol  service”  shall mean any
“private patrol operator” as defined in the California Business and
Professions Code which furnishes or purports to furnish to members, subscribers,
or customers any street patrol officer for the purpose of affording additional
security and protection of person and property or to perform any other service
directly related to the “private protection of life and
property.”	(2)	Street Patrol Officer.  The term “street patrol  officer”
shall mean any person who performs for a private patrol service the duties of a
uniformed guard or uniformed patrol officer or any of the duties described in
subdivision (a)(1) by street patrol service utilizing foot patrol, motor patrol,
or other means of transportation in public areas, City streets, or public
thoroughfares.  This definition shall not apply to uniformed guards or
uniformed caretakers employed by an entity other than a private patrol service,
such as by industrial plants, department stores, community associations, or
private clubs wherein said function does not require patrolling from one
location to another by use of a City street, nor shall it apply to persons
employed by such an entity solely in connection with the commercial, public, or
professional business of such an entity.	(b)	Private Patrol
Services.	(1)	Permit.  It shall be unlawful to engage in the business of
maintaining or operating any private patrol service in the City of Los Angeles
without first obtaining a license as required by the State of California and a
permit from the City.	(2)	Requirements for Permits.  The following requirements
must be met to obtain a permit to operate, maintain and conduct a private patrol
service in the City.	A.	Registration.  A registration form shall be filed with
the Board of Police Commissioners on forms supplied by the City.  The
registration form shall be signed and verified by the registrant and shall state
the name, address and organization of the private security  service, its method
of operation, the territory or location it proposes to serve, the names,
addresses of its officers, members, associates and employees and a description
of the procedures for investigating citizen complaints against its street patrol
officers.	B.	State License.  The registration form for a permit shall be
accompanied by a photostatic or certified copy of the private patrol service’s
State of California License evidencing compliance with State laws relating to
the business of private patrols.	C.	Insurance.  Upon request, a private patrol
service shall furnish to the Board of  Police Commissioners evidence of the
following insurance:  workers’ compensation, general liability insurance,
automobile insurance in the amounts required by State law.	(c)	Street Patrol
Officers.	(1)  Registration.   It shall be unlawful for any person to perform
the duties of a street patrol officer in the City of Los Angeles without first
obtaining a Guard Registration card as required by the State of California and
registering with the City.  Upon the registration being accepted by the City,
the Board of Police Commissioners may issue a permit which shall be subject to
all of the provisions of Chapter 10 of this Code, including all the rights,
regulations, and due process procedures contained therein.  The Board of Police
Commissioners shall retain street patrol officer permits in its files.	(2) 
Requirements for Registration.  The following requirements must be met to
register to perform the duties of a street patrol officer in the
City.	A.	Registration.  A registration form shall be filed with the Board of
Police Commissioners on forms supplied by the City.  The registration form
shall be signed and verified by the registrant and shall state his name, address
and the name and address of the private patrol service by whom he is employed. 
The registration form shall be submitted to the Board of Police Commissioners
within 15 days of the Street Patrol Officer being hired by the Private Patrol
Service.  Registration forms may be submitted by hand-delivery, U.S. mail or
facsimile.	B.	State Registration Card.  The registration form for a street
patrol officer permit must be accompanied by a photostatic or certified copy of
his State of California Guard Registration card evidencing compliance with the
State laws relating to the occupation of 	a street patrol officer.	(d)	Uniform,
Equipment, Badges, Insignia.	(1)  General.  Any badge, insignia, patch or
uniform used or worn by any employee, officer, member or associate of a private
patrol service, while on duty for said patrol service, shall be in compliance
with State law.  Any such badge, insignia, patch or uniform shall not be of
such a design as to be mistaken for an official badge, insignia or uniform worn
by a law enforcement officer of the City of Los Angeles or any other law
enforcement agency with jurisdiction in the City.	(2)	Uniforms.  The Private
Patrol Service shall submit to the Board of Police Commissioners a sample or
color photograph of the proposed uniform for approval by the Board to ensure
that it does not resemble a uniform of any law enforcement agency with
jurisdiction in the City.  No uniform shall be worn if the sample thereof
submitted to the Board has been determined to be in violation of subsection
(d)(1).	(3)	Equipment, Weapons, Ammunition.  Street Patrol Officers are only
authorized to carry .38 caliber, .45 caliber, .357 caliber and 9 millimeter
firearms.  The Board of Police Commissioners shall have the authority to grant
an exception to this subsection upon a showing of good cause.  Firearms and
ammunition used by street patrol officers shall be of a brand name, model and
caliber approved by the State of California.  No street patrol officer shall
carry any firearm in the performance of his duties unless he possesses a valid
firearm qualification card issued by the State for said firearm.  Other
authorized weapons include State approved batons and chemical agents as
authorized by the officer’s State permit.	(e)	Motor Vehicles.  Each vehicle
used for the purpose of patrolling shall comply with California Vehicle Code
section 25279(b) and at a minimum the letters and numerals shall be clearly
visible and readable from a distance of fifty feet and shall be permanently
affixed to the vehicle.  A private patrol service shall not use or permit to be
used for purposes of patrolling, any vehicle which is not marked and
identifiable with approved markings or insignia in accordance herewith.  No
vehicle used by a private patrol service shall be equipped with a red light,
siren, or be painted in a manner similar to a police vehicle of the City of Los
Angeles or other law enforcement agency with jurisdiction in the City.  The
private patrol service shall submit to the Board of Police Commissioners a color
photograph of the proposed vehicles showing compliance with this
subsection.	(f)	Reports to Police.  Every private patrol service operator and
every street patrol officer shall immediately make a report to the Police
Department of any felonies, high-grade misdemeanors or violation of federal law
which come to his attention. High-grade misdemeanors include Petty Theft,
Dangerous Weapons’ Control Laws, Traffic Manslaughter, Indecent Exposure,
Child Molesting, Contributing to the Delinquence of a Minor, Lewd Conduct, and
all other misdemeanor sex offenses. The private patrol service shall also
immediately notify the Police Department of any weapon discharge or private
person’s arrest made within the City, by any employee, officer, member, or
associate of the private patrol service.	(g)	Employees.  The private patrol
service will be responsible for each street patrol officer to be registered with
the State and to carry proof thereof at all times while on duty.  A Street
Patrol Officer in connection with his duties, upon request by a law enforcement
officer, shall identify himself as a Street Patrol Officer and shall give his
name and employer’s name.  At no time shall a Street Patrol Officer conduct
himself by word or manner as to lead others to believe that he possesses the
power to enforce Traffic Regulations or to issue Traffic
Citations.	(h)	Authority to Make Rules and Regulations.  The Board of Police
Commissioners shall have the authority to make rules and regulations not
inconsistent with State law or this chapter concerning private patrol services
and street patrol officers.  Prior to any changes or additions to such Board
rules and regulations, the Board of Police Commissioners shall give reasonable
notice to all private patrol services registered with the City of the proposed
changes or additions.	(i)	Permits; Nontransferable.  Permits issued under this
article are not transferable.  This section shall not be construed to prohibit
the owner of a private patrol service from selling, assigning or transferring
such service; however any new owner, transferee, or assignee shall be required
to qualify under this article before commencing operations or carrying on
business as a private patrol service.	(j)	Suspension/Revocation.  Violation of
any provision of this ordinance, any of the rules promulgated by the Board of
Police Commissioners, or of any State or local law in connection with the
operation of a Private Patrol Service, may be cause for suspension and/or
revocation of the permit held by the Private Patrol Service.  The Board of
Police Commissioners shall notify the Private Patrol Service of the intent to
suspend or revoke the registration of any of its street patrol
officers.	(k)	Permits Not Exclusive.  Permits required by this article shall be
in addition to any license or permit required under any other chapter of this
code.
