                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEFINITIONS. (§ 53.00)

  DEFINITIONS.

	For the purpose of this article, the following words and phrases are defined
and shall be construed as hereinafter set out unless it shall be apparent from
the context that a different meaning is intended.

	“Animal” shall mean any animal, poultry, bird, reptile, fish or any other
dumb creature.

	“Board” shall mean the Board of Animal Services Commission unless otherwise
specifically designated.

	“Cat” shall mean any cat of either sex, of any age.

	“Cat Kennel” shall mean any lot, building, structure, enclosure, or
premises, where four or more cats are kept or maintained for any purpose.
(Amended by Ord. No. 162,538, Eff. 8/27/87.)

	“Department” shall mean the Department of Animal Services unless otherwise
specifically designated.

	“Dog” shall mean any dog of either sex, of any age.

	“Dog Kennel” shall mean any lot, building, structure, enclosure, or
premises, where four or more dogs are kept or maintained for any purpose.
(Amended by Ord. No. 162,538, Eff. 8/27/87.)

	“General Manager” shall mean General Manager of the Department.

	“Impounded” shall mean having been received into the custody of the
Municipal pound or into the custody of the Department or any authorized agent or
representative thereof.

	“Kennel” shall mean any lot, building, structure or premises whereon or
wherein four or more dogs are kept or maintained for any purpose.

	“Pet Shop” shall mean any store, or department of any store, or any place
of business, where dogs, cats, monkeys, birds, reptiles, or any other animals
are kept for sale, for hire, or sold.

	“Unlicensed Dog” shall mean any dog for which the license for the current
year has not been paid or whose license has been revoked by the Department.
(Amended by Ord. No. 162,538, Eff. 8/27/87.)

	“Vaccination” or “Vaccination Against Rabies”, shall mean inoculation
of a dog with a vaccine approved by and in a manner prescribed by the State
Department of Public Health. (Amended by Ord. No. 162,538, Eff. 8/27/87.)

	“Zoo” shall mean any place where a collection of wild animals, or wild and
domesticated animals, are kept for exhibition or for view by the public.

	The Department of Animal Services (formerly, “Department of Animal
Regulation”) has the power and duty to enforce all ordinances of the City of
Los Angeles and penal laws of the State relative to the care and impoundment of
dumb animals, for the prevention of cruelty to animals, and to enforce
ordinances relative to the payment of money for licenses for animals within the
City.

	The Department is no longer included in the Charter.  Its powers and duties
may be changed or eliminated by ordinance.  Charter § 115.
