                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ANIMAL SHELTER ADOPTION FEE SCHEDULE. (§ 53.12)

  ANIMAL SHELTER ADOPTION FEE SCHEDULE.
	(Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 180,697, Eff. 6/26/09.)	(a)	(Amended by
Ord. No. 181,341, Eff. 11/14/10.)  The Department shall charge and collect fees
of the types and in the amounts set forth in this Section, or as revised in the
manner set forth in this Section, to recover the costs incurred by the City in
connection with animals adopted or redeemed from City animal shelters.  From
time to time the Board of Animal Services Commissioners shall determine the
verifiable total costs incurred by the City in connection with animal
impoundment and adoption, and develop and recommend to the City Council for
approval, a reasonable revised fee schedule for animals adopted or redeemed from
the animal shelters, including those adopted through special programs.  Upon
approval by the City Council, the Department shall promulgate the revised fees
in an appropriate manner for the information of the public.  Unless revised as
set forth herein, the Department shall charge and collect the following fees:
  
    
      
        Spay or neuter, dog, cat or rabbit
      
      
        $40.00
      
    
    
      
        For each dog adopted
      
      
        $102.00
      
    
    
      
        For each dog redeemed
      
      
        $47.00
      
    
    
      
        For each cat adopted
      
      
        $76.00
      
    
    
      
        For each cat redeemed
      
      
        $21.00
      
    
    
      
        For each dog redeemed, 2nd occurrence
      
      
        $25.00 additional
      
    
    
      
        For each dog redeemed, 3rd occurrence or more
      
      
        $50.00 additional
      
    
    
      
        For each cat redeemed, 2nd occurrence
      
      
        $13.00 additional
      
    
    
      
        For each cat redeemed, 3rd occurrence or more
      
      
        $26.00 additional
      
    
    
      
        For each equine animal sold or redeemed
      
      
        $325.00
      
    
    
      
        For each sheep, swine, goat or other animal sold or redeemed
      
      
        $26.00
      
    
    
      
        For each small pet, reptile or bird sold or redeemed
      
      
        $17.00
      
    
    
      
        For each rabbit sold or redeemed
      
      
        $16.00
      
    
    
      
        Relinquishment fee for a dog
      
      
        $25.00
      
    
    
      
        Relinquishment fee, including pickup, for a dog
      
      
        $59.00
      
    
    
      
        Relinquishment fee for a cat
      
      
        $22.00
      
    
    
      
        Relinquishment fee, including pickup, for a cat
      
      
        $56.00
      
    
    
      
        Relinquishment fee for a rabbit
      
      
        $18.00
      
    
    
      
        Relinquishment fee for an equine animal
      
      
        $237.00
      
    
    
      
        Relinquishment fee, including pickup, for an equine animal
      
      
        $333.00
      
    
    
      
        Relinquishment fee for a small animal
      
      
        $11.00
      
    
    
      
        Relinquishment fee for other animals
      
      
        $25.00
      
    
    
      
        Relinquishment fee, including pickup, for other animals
      
      
        $55.00
      
    
  
	For animals held for other than adoption or redemption, the Department may
charge the reasonable cost of feeding and caring for them.  In addition to the
above fees, the Department shall charge and collect fees for implanting a
microchip and for spay and neuter and other charges as provided in this
Article.  For each dog or cat adopted, the above fee includes the cost of a
microchip and sterilization.  In the case of a dog, the adoption fee may be
increased by an additional amount equal to the cost of a license for an altered
dog.  For each adopted rabbit, the above fee shall be increased by the $40.00
cost of sterilization.	(b)	No fees whatsoever shall be charged or collected for
or on account of any animal which has been unlawfully taken up or impounded, and
any such animal shall be immediately delivered upon demand therefore to the
owner or person entitled to the custody thereof.	(c)	For veterinary services
furnished to animals by the Department:	1.	If furnished by a private
veterinarian at the request of the Department, the fee to be charged and
collected shall be the total of the actual bill to the Department plus $2.00 for
Department administrative expenses, or such other reasonable fee as established
in the manner set forth in Subsection (a) above.	2.	If furnished by a City
veterinarian, the fees shall be charged and collected pursuant to a fee schedule
to be established by the General Manager.	Said fee schedule shall take into
account the reasonable expense of supplying the services including such factors
as direct costs of the services and department overhead.	(d)	Department shall
not charge and collect a fee for each dog or cat redeemed by the owner who is a
“disabled” individual or is 62 years of age or older provided that the
combined adjusted gross income of all members of the household in which such
individual resides was less than the “very low income” limitations for
residents of the City of Los Angeles, as determined by the United States Housing
Act of 1937, as amended, using the figure in effect on the preceding first day
of April and published by the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,268, Eff. 9/26/10.)	(e)	Department shall
not charge and collect a fee for each animal, or litter under four months old,
which is impounded, other than an animal suspected of rabies which is impounded
for the purpose of quarantine, provided that the combined adjusted gross income
of all members of the household in which the owner resides is less than the
“very low income” limitation for persons residing in the City of Los
Angeles, as determined by the United States Housing Act of 1937, as amended,
using the figure in effect on the preceding first day of April and published by
the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 181,268, Eff. 9/26/10.)	(f)	For purposes of this section, an individual
shall be considered to be “disabled” if he or she meets the definitions
promulgated from time to time pursuant to the California Fair Employment and
Housing Act and/or by the United States Department of Labor.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 181,268, Eff. 9/26/10.)	(g)	All of the proceeds from the fee set forth in
Subsection (a) for each rabbit adopted or redeemed plus the proceeds from the
spay or neuter fee as established in this Article, shall be deposited into the
Animal Sterilization Fund, up to an amount of $40.00 per rabbit.	(h)	The General
Manager may reduce the fees listed  in Section 53.12(a) by up to 50%, and
reduce or waive the fees for an electronic animal identification device
(microchip) for a second or subsequent animal adopted along with an animal whose
adoption fees were paid for in full where the animals have bonded with each
other.	(i)	The Department may reduce the  fees listed in Section 53.12(a) by up
to 50%, and reduce or waive the fees for an electronic animal identification
device (microchip), for any impounded animal that is seven years of age or
older, if adopted by an individual 62 years of age or older who will own and
maintain that animal.
