                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DOG LICENSE FEE. (§ 53.15.3)

  DOG LICENSE FEE.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 181,882, Eff. 10/30/11.)	(a)	Any person owning or having
custody or control of any dog shall pay, in addition to a license tax, a fee in
the sum of $91.50 for the processing and related costs of issuance of a dog
license, except that for spayed female or neutered male dogs, or any dog
certified by a licensed veterinarian to be incapable of breeding or being bred,
a fee of $16.50 shall be paid.  The provisions of Section 53.15 of this Code
with respect to eligibility for the lower license tax specified there shall be
equally applicable to eligibility for the lower fee specified in this Section. 
Any person eligible under the provisions of Section 53.15 of this Code for a
lower license tax shall also be eligible for the lower license fee imposed by
this Section and any person exempt under the provisions of Section 53.15 of this
Code from paying the license tax shall be exempt from paying any the license fee
imposed by this Section.  License fees shall be paid at the same time and in
the same manner as the license tax.	(b)	In the event any dog license tax and fee
required by this Article is not paid within 45 days from the date of acquisition
of a dog four months of age or older, within 45 days of the dog reaching the age
of four months, within 45 days of the date of expiration of any previously
issued dog license, within 45 days from the date of mailing of notice to secure
a license to the owner or custodian of any previously unlicensed dog, or within
45 days of the expiration date of the anti-rabies vaccination, the owner or
custodian may be subject to a criminal citation or an administrative penalty in
the amount of $250.00 for the first violation, $500.00 for the second violation
and $1000.00 for the third violation through an Administrative Code Enforcement
program established by ordinance.  A violation of the license requirement of
this Article may also be prosecuted as a misdemeanor.
