                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

HEARING PROCEDURES AND LICENSE REVOCATIONS. (§ 53.18.5)

  HEARING PROCEDURES AND LICENSE REVOCATIONS.
	(Added by Ord. No. 162,538, Eff. 8/27/87; Title Amended by Ord. No. 181,930,
Eff. 12/11/11.)	This section shall govern hearing procedures for barking dog
complaints, the revocation of dog licenses and related matters.  For purposes
of this section the term “dog” includes the plural and the term “owner”
means the owner or person having charge, care or custody of a dog.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 181,930, Eff. 12/11/11.)	(a)	Hearing.  A hearing pursuant to this
Section shall be held to issue or reissue a dog license upon terms, conditions
and restrictions.  A hearing shall also be held to revoke a dog license that
has previously been issued or reissued upon terms, conditions or restrictions
where the owner has either failed to comply with the terms, conditions or
restrictions or the violation continues to exist or reoccurs.  A hearing also
may be held in the absence of a dog license or in the absence of a valid
license.  Following the hearing, the license may be issued or reissued upon
terms, conditions and restrictions, or the owner may be ordered to surrender the
dog to the Department or remove the dog from the City as if the license was
revoked.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,930, Eff. 12/11/11.)	(b)	Hearing Examiner. 
A Hearing Examiner appointed by the General Manager shall exercise all powers
relating to the conduct of the hearing, including but not limited to, the
administration of oaths and affirmations and to certify to official
acts.	(c)	Notice of Hearing.  The Department shall commence a hearing by
issuing to and the serving of a written notice upon the owner of the dog. Notice
shall be served at least ten (10) days prior to the date set for the hearing.
The notice shall state in clear and concise language:	1.	the purpose and reason
for holding the hearing and the requested remedy or penalty, and	2.	the time and
place where the hearing is to be held.	(d)	Subpoena Power.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 173,273, Eff. 6/25/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  The General Manager or his
authorized representative is authorized and empowered to summon witnesses for
the hearing by requesting the City Clerk, pursuant to Section 217 of the Charter
of the City of Los Angeles, to issue subpoenas requiring the attendance of such
witnesses at the time and place specified.	(e)	Witnesses.  At the hearing, the
owner of the dog, the complainant or complainants, if any, and the Department
shall be given an opportunity to present evidence, and call and cross-examine
witnesses.	(f)	Continuances.  The Hearing Examiner may continue the hearing
from time to time upon good cause being shown.	(g)	Notice.  Any written notice
provided for in this section shall be served upon the owner of the dog in the
manner provided for giving of notice in Section 11.00 (i) of this Code, or by
posting upon property occupied by the owner, or both. Service by posting is
complete upon posting.	(h)	Evidence.  Hearings need not be conducted according
to technical rules relating to evidence or witnesses. Any relevant evidence
shall be admitted if it is the sort of evidence on which responsible persons are
accustomed to rely in conduct of serious affairs, regardless of the existence of
any common law or statutory rule which might make improper the admission of such
evidence over objection in civil actions. Hearsay evidence may be used for the
purpose of supplementing or explaining any direct evidence, but shall not be
sufficient in itself to support a finding unless it would be admissible over
objection in civil actions. Oral evidence shall be taken only on oath or
affirmation.	(i)	Reporting.  A recording or transcript of the hearing shall be
taken.	(j)	Burden of Proof.  The burden is on the Department to show by a
preponderance of the evidence that the allegations made are true.	(k)	Hearing
Examiner – Report.  The Hearing Examiner shall, within 15 days of the
conclusion of any hearing, submit a report to the General Manager. The report
shall contain a summary of the evidence, including oral testimony, and shall
state the Hearing Examiner’s findings and recommendations. The report shall be
a public record and shall be served upon the owner of the dog in accordance with
the provision of (g) above.	(l)	Hearings.  (Amended by Ord. No. 165,507, Eff.
3/25/90.)	1.	(Amended by Ord. No. 181,930, Eff. 12/11/11.)  If, at the initial
hearing the Hearing Examiner determines that the allegations are true, the
Hearing Examiner shall recommend that the license be issued or reissued upon
reasonable terms, conditions or restrictions for the training, handling or
maintenance of the dog to abate the condition which gave rise to the hearing. 
In the absence of a dog license or of a valid license, the Hearing Examiner may
recommend that the license be issued upon reasonable terms, conditions or
restrictions or if the owner is unwilling to accept an issued or reissued
license, that the dog be surrendered to the Department or removed from the
City.  Surrendering the dog to the Department or removing the dog from the City
shall be in addition to any civil or criminal penalties for failure to have a
valid license.	Terms, conditions, or restrictions may include but are not
limited to the following:	A.	selection of locations within the owner’s
property or premises where a dog shall not be kept;	B.	requirements as to size,
construction or design of an enclosure where a dog may be kept;	C.	specialized
training from a trainer or training program approved by the Department to
correct any of the dog’s behavioral problems;	D.	removal of one or more dogs
from the premises to another location or prohibiting the addition of any new dog
at the premises;	E.	types and method of restraint, or muzzling, or
both;	F.	photo identification, permanent marking, electronic identification
device, or all of these, for purposes of identification;	G.	sterilization, even
if otherwise exempt;	H.	a civil penalty as provided by ordinance for an
administrative citations enforcement program;	I.	requiring the owner to obtain a
Restricted Dog Permit with additional terms, conditions and restrictions
pursuant thereto.	2.	A hearing or subsequent hearing shall be held wherein the
license may be revoked if the owner has either failed to comply with the terms,
conditions or restrictions imposed pursuant to clause (1), above, or Subdivision
(r) or if the violation continues to exist.	If the license is again reissued, in
addition to any other term, condition or restriction recommended by the Hearing
Examiner, the licensee shall agree to pay a civil penalty in the amount of two
hundred fifty dollars ($250) as a condition of the re-issuance of the license.
The General Manager shall establish such rules and regulations as are reasonably
necessary to prevent the imposition of the civil penalty from becoming an
economic hardship on the licensee. Such rules and regulations shall include, but
are not limited to, criteria to reduce the amount of penalty to be imposed and
provisions for time payments.	3.	If the owner fails to appear at a hearing or
absents himself from a hearing, the Hearing Examiner may continue the matter or
proceed with the hearing as the Hearing Examiner deems appropriate. 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section, the Hearing Examiner may
recommend that the license of any owner who fails to attend a hearing or absents
himself from a hearing be revoked if the evidence establishes that the
allegations are true.  In the absence of a license or a valid license, the
Hearing Examiner may recommend that the dog be surrendered to the Department or
removed from the City as if the license were revoked.  Surrendering the dog to
the Department or removing the dog from the City shall be in addition to any
civil or criminal penalties for failure to have a valid license.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 181,930, Eff. 12/11/11.)	(m)	General Manager – Review.  	1.	The
General Manager shall review the findings and recommendations of the Hearing
Examiner and may adopt or reject the Hearing Examiner’s findings, or may adopt
or modify the recommendations of the Hearing Examiner, or may return the matter
to the Hearing Examiner for further evidence or for additional  findings and
recommendations. The General Manager’s decision shall be finalized in writing
within 15 days of the receipt of the Hearing Examiner’s findings and
recommendations, and shall be served upon the owner in accordance with the
provisions of (g) above.	2.	The decision of the General Manager is final and
effective when served upon the owner, unless there is an appeal filed within 15
days of said service.	(n)	Revoked License – Removal of Animal from City. 
Following a hearing, if a dog license is revoked, or in the absence of a license
or a valid license, if the dog has been ordered to be surrendered to the
Department or removed from the City as if the license were revoked, the owner
shall surrender the dog to the Department or permanently remove the dog or cause
the dog to be permanently removed from the City within five (5) calendar days
after either the time for appeal, as provided herein, has passed without an
appeal being filed, or the decision of the General Manager revoking a dog
license or ordering the dog to be surrendered to the Department or removed from
the City as if the license were revoked, has been served upon the dog owner. 
The dog shall be impounded by the Department if found within the City after the
five day period.  Failure to remove a dog from the City or surrender it to the
Department as provided herein is a misdemeanor.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,930,
Eff. 12/11/11.)	(o)	Subsequent Disposition of Dog.  Notwithstanding any other
provision of law, the Department shall hold for sale any dog surrendered or
impounded pursuant to this section for a period of forty-five (45) days. The dog
must be transferred to and sold from a district animal shelter different from
the district animal shelter where the complaint arose. The General Manager or
his duly authorized representative may impose appropriate terms, conditions or
restrictions as a condition to the issuance of a new license to a new
owner.	(p)	Notice to the Department of the Removal of a Dog from the City.  An
owner of any dog whose license has been revoked pursuant to this section shall
inform the Department in writing upon the dog’s removal from the City the
name, address, and telephone number of the new owner, the location where the dog
will be kept and the name and description of the dog. The owner shall, in
addition, notify the new owner in writing of the details of any and all
complaints concerning the dog, and any terms, conditions or restrictions
previously imposed by the Department. The owner shall provide the Department
with a copy of the notification to the new owner as well as an acknowledgment by
the new owner the receipt thereof.	(q)	Appeal Procedures.  (Amended by Ord. No.
164,477, Eff. 3/27/89.)	1.	The decision of the General Manager to revoke a dog
license or order a dog to be surrendered to the Department or removed from the
City as if the license were revoked, to declare a dog to be a dangerous animal,
to issue or re-issue a dog license upon terms, conditions or restrictions, or
refuse to issue a new license pursuant to Subdivision (r) may be appealed to the
Board of Commissioners by the owner of the dog as provided herein.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 181,930, Eff. 12/11/11.)	2.	The Board may establish such rules and
procedures consistent with this section as it deems necessary for the conduct of
the hearing of appeals, including, but not limited to, the filing and
presentation of written and oral statements.	3.	The appeal shall be in writing
and shall be on an appeal form provided by the Department.   The appellant
shall set forth specifically on the form wherein the appellant believes that the
decision of the General Manager is not supported by the evidence or where any
hearing before a Hearing Examiner was not conducted in accordance with the
provisions of this section for the conduct of hearings.  Within 10 days from
the date of a timely filed appeal, the General Manager shall transmit to the
Board copies of the Hearing Examiner’s file and report, the General
Manager’s written decision and the appeal form for consideration.	The grounds
or reasons stated on the appeal form by the appellant will be the only grounds
or reasons considered by the Board.  No appeal shall be considered if filed or
postmarked later than 15 days after the decision of the General Manager is
served upon the owner or if the owner has failed to appear at the hearing before
the Hearing Examiner.	4.	The Board shall fix the time, date and place of the
hearing and shall serve a notice of the hearing upon all parties at least five
days prior to the hearing.  The Board shall conduct its hearing at the time,
date and place specified in the notice unless, upon the written request of the
appellant and upon good cause being shown, it agrees to continue the hearing
once to a date certain no later than 14 days after the original date set for the
hearing.	5.	The Board, after notice and hearing, may affirm, modify, or reverse
the decision of the General Manager and deny or grant appeal accordingly.	6.	The
Board shall not consider any new evidence and shall base its decision only
upon 	(i)	the record before the Hearing Examiner, 	(ii)	the report of the
Hearing Examiner, 	(iii)	the written decision of the General
Manager, 	(iv)	the appeal form, and 	(v)	a consideration of statements, if
any, presented to the Board orally or in writing at the hearing.	7.	The Board
shall make its decision within 75 days from the date the General Manager
transmits to the Board the materials described in Subdivision 3 above provided,
however, this time limit  may be extended once if, prior to the expiration of
the 75 days, the appellant, the General Manager and the Board mutually agree to
extend this time limit for a period not to exceed 15 days.  If the Board fails
to act on any appeal within the specified time limits, the decision of the
General Manager shall be deemed affirmed without further action by the
Board.	8.	The Board may reverse or modify the decision of the General Manager
and grant the appeal only when the written decision of the General Manager is
not supported by the evidence or whenever a hearing before a Hearing Examiner
was not conducted in accordance with the provisions of this section for the
conduct of hearings.	9.	The decision of the Board to reverse or to modify the
decision of the General Manager shall be in writing.  The decision shall
enumerate the ground or grounds which form the basis for the Board’s action
and specify where in the record the evidence supports each ground so
enumerated.	10.	A decision of the Board is final.  It becomes effective when
served upon the General Manager and appellant by the Board.	(r)	Reinstatement of
License Privileges.  (Added by Ord. No. 165,507, Eff. 3/25/90.)  Upon the
written request of the person whose privilege to own, possess, control or be in
charge of any dogs has been terminated pursuant to Sections 53.34.4(h) or
53.63(c), the General Manager may reinstate the privilege as to other dogs and
authorize the Department to issue a new license. In addition to any other
requirement of law, the General Manager may impose such terms, conditions or
restrictions as he believes are necessary to protect the public health, safety
and welfare, and which may be in addition to any term, condition or restriction
authorized by Clause (1) of Subdivision (l), above, or Section
53.34.4(e)(2).	The General Manager’s decision shall be in writing and state
the reasons for issuing or refusing to issue the license or imposing terms,
conditions or restrictions and shall be served upon the owner in accordance with
the provisions of Subdivision (g). The owner may appeal to the Board the refusal
to issue a license or the imposition of terms, conditions or restrictions as
provided by this section.	No license shall be issued until the decision is final
and then only upon the written acceptance by the owner of any terms, conditions
or restrictions finally imposed. If the owner fails to comply with the terms,
conditions or restrictions imposed herein, any license revocation hearing shall
be held pursuant to Clause (2) of Subdivision (l) this section.
