                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DOG LICENSE TAX – PENALTIES. (§ 53.15)

  DOG LICENSE TAX – PENALTIES.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 157,035, Eff. 10/4/82.)	(a)	(Amended by Ord. No. 181,882,
Eff. 10/30/11.)  Any person owning or having custody or control of any dog
shall pay a license tax of $8.50 for each dog over the age of four months.  For
spayed females or neutered male dogs, or any dog certified by a licensed
veterinarian to be incapable of breeding or being bred, the license tax shall be
$3.50.  Such license tax shall not apply to any dog kept or maintained
exclusively in any licensed dog kennel.	The license tax imposed hereunder shall
be due and payable by the owner or custodian of such dog upon acquisition of
said dog if the dog is four months of age or older, or once the dog reaches the
age of four months, or upon expiration of any previously issued license, or upon
notification by the Department that any previously issued license has expired
and that such license tax is due and payable.  Thereafter, except as otherwise
permitted herein, such license tax shall become due and payable by such person
on the date of expiration of any license previously issued for such dog. 
License taxes and fees shall be paid annually or every two or three years on or
before the expiration date of a previously issued license.  A three year
license for an altered dog shall be discounted by $5.00 off the cumulative fee
amount due.	The Department is authorized to issue licenses for one, two or three
years.  The license may have a retroactive start date in order to expire upon
the expiration date of the anti-rabies vaccination.  The cost of the license
shall not be prorated.  In the event a license has been previously issued,
subsequent licenses shall expire one, two or three years from the date of
expiration of such previously issued license.  Licenses shall be renewable upon
payment of the appropriate license tax.  The owner or custodian of a dog may
choose the option of paying the license tax for said dog for a period of one,
two or three years consistent with State law if such multi-year licenses are
offered by the Department.	Upon payment of the license tax, the Department shall
issue a license and a metal tag with the number thereof, together with the words
“L.A. Dog License” plainly inscribed thereon.  No portion of the license
tax shall be refunded in the event ownership, custody or control of any dog is
terminated during the license period or for any other reason.	The metal tag
issued with the license shall be a permanent tag and shall be replaced only upon
proof of loss or change of ownership.	A written certificate, signed by a
licensed veterinarian, containing a full description of such dog as to its
breed, color, sex, age and name, and reciting the fact that the female dog has
been spayed or the male dog neutered or reciting the reasons why the
veterinarian otherwise deems the dog described therein incapable of breeding or
being bred, shall be exhibited to the person issuing a license in order to
qualify for the lower tax and fee specified herein.  The General Manager may
accept other satisfactory evidence of spaying or neutering in lieu of such
certificate where it is unavailable, or when provided in a manner prescribed by
the Department, including but not limited to electronic transmission or
facsimile, consistent with State law.	(b)	The Department may issue a free
license for any dog duly and properly trained to aid or assist any person who is
blind, deaf or physically handicapped when the dog is actually being used to aid
or assist such blind, deaf, or physically handicapped person.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 162,486, Eff. 7/18/87.)	(c)	Provided, that the Department may transfer
without charge the license for any dog exchanged through provisions of
Subsection (i) of Section 53.11, unless pursuant to Subsection (a) of this
section, the licensed tax charged for a dog taken in exchange for one brought
back to the Department would be higher, in which case the license may be
transferred only upon the payment of the additional amount.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 142,491, Operative 10/1/71.)	(d)	(Amended by Ord. No. 181,882, Eff.
10/30/11.)  No license for a dog shall be issued unless the owner shall have
paid the applicable license tax provided therefor, and shall have exhibited to
an authorized employee of the Department a certificate of anti-rabies
vaccination of the dog, signed by a duly licensed veterinarian, or provided
other satisfactory evidence of current anti-rabies vaccination in a manner
prescribed by the Department, including but not limited to electronic
transmission or facsimile, consistent with State law, except as provided in
Section 53.52 of this Article.	Notwithstanding the provisions of Subsection (a)
of this Section, any license issued by the Department shall expire on the date
upon which the anti-rabies vaccination ceases to immunize the dog for which the
license has been issued.  A license may be issued for one, two or three years,
and commence retroactively in order to expire on the expiration date of the
anti-rabies vaccination.  The cost for such retroactive license shall not be
prorated.  In the event such immunization ceases to be effective prior to the
expiration of the license, the owner shall be notified in writing that the
license is not valid, at the address last known to the Department prior to the
date upon which the immunization ceases to be effective.  Said license may
become valid for the balance of the licensing period, without payment of any
additional tax, upon presentation to the Department of a new certificate of
vaccination or other satisfactory evidence of a current anti-rabies vaccination
showing effective immunization for the balance of such licensing period.  For
licenses issued before the effective date of this Subsection, in order to align
the expiration date of the license and the expiration date of the anti-rabies
vaccination, the Department may extend the license period for a dog license in
less than a one year increment and charge a pro-rated amount therefor.	(e)	The
Department shall initiate action against the owner of any dog found without a
current active license or without a certificate of rabies vaccination indicating
such dog is immune to rabies as required by this section.  (Amended by Ord. No.
150,817, Eff. 6/10/78, Oper. 7/1/78.)	(f)	(Amended by Ord. No. 181,882, Eff.
10/30/11.)  The Department shall issue one license at 50% of the current
altered license tax for one dog to any disabled individual or to any individual
62 years of age or older who owns and maintains said dog, provided that the
combined adjusted gross income of all members of the household in which such
individual resides is less than the “very low income” limitation for
residents of the City of Los Angeles, as determined by the United States Housing
Act of 1937, as amended, using the figure in effect on the preceding first day
of April as published by the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development.	For the purpose of this Subsection, an individual shall be
considered to be disabled if he or she meets the definition promulgated by the
California Fair Employment and Housing Act or by the United States Department of
Labor.	The dog for which application for a discounted license is made must be a
spayed female, a neutered male, or a dog certified by a licensed veterinarian to
be incapable of breeding or being bred.  Evidence that a dog is spayed or
neutered, or incapable of breeding or being bred shall be provided by the owner
to the Department in the same manner and form as it is specified in Subsection
(a) of this Section.	No individual may apply for, be issued, or possess more
than one discounted license provided for by this Subsection at any given time,
and no more than one discounted license per household shall be issued.  The
provisions of this Subsection shall not eliminate the duty of any individual to
apply for and obtain a license for each dog owned by said individual.	Any
individual who is entitled to a discounted license under the provisions of this
Subsection may file an application with the Department for such a license.  The
license shall be automatically rendered invalid by any change in ownership of
said dog.  It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to knowingly receive the
benefits of the discounted license provided for by this Subsection when the
basis for such a discounted license either does not exist or ceases to
exist.	(g)	Puppy certificate.  For a dog under the age of four months old, the
Department shall, in addition to any other fees charged at the time the dog is
adopted by the Department, charge an amount equal to the annual license tax and
fee for a spayed or neutered dog and issue a puppy certificate for such dog. 
The puppy certificate shall expire when the dog is four months old.  Within 45
days of the expiration date of the certificate, if the Department is provided
with satisfactory evidence that the dog has been sterilized and has received an
anti-rabies vaccination, the owner shall be provided with a valid license at no
extra charge.  The one year license shall expire on the expiration date of the
anti-rabies vaccination.  Any person adopting or purchasing a dog from any
other source may also purchase a puppy certificate from the Department or from
any person or organization authorized by the Department to issue a puppy
certificate.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,882, Eff. 10/30/11.)	(h)	Late fees.  If
the license tax imposed hereunder is not paid within 30 days of the time
required hereunder, a late fee of $20.00 for a sterilized dog or $100.00 for an
unsterilized or intact dog or such other amount as determined by the Board of
Animal Services Commissioners and approved by the City Council, shall be due and
payable in addition to any other civil or criminal penalties imposed by this
Article.  A $25.00 field collection fee or such other amount as determined by
the Board of Animal Services Commissioners and approved by the City Council,
shall be due and payable when the tax for a license is collected at the property
where the dog or dogs are maintained following previous notice to the owner by
the Department.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,882, Eff. 10/30/11.)	(i)	The owner of
any dog that has not been spayed or neutered and meets one of the exemptions in
Section 53.15.2(b)(2) shall pay a license tax equal to that of an intact dog. 
In the absence of such immediate proof of exemption, the owner shall enter into
an agreement with the Department to provide proof that the dog is exempt and is
or will be in compliance with Subdivisions (3) and (4) of Section 53.15.2(b), or
have the dog spayed or neutered and provide satisfactory proof to the Department
within 60 days that the dog is exempt in compliance with Section 53.15.2(b) or
that the dog has been spayed or neutered.  Failure to provide the required
proof shall subject the dog owner or custodian to the penalties enumerated in
Section 53.15.2(b)(7).  The license shall not be valid until such satisfactory
proof is provided to the Department.  No portion of the license tax shall be
refunded in the event the dog is spayed or neutered during the license period. 
(Added by Ord. No. 181,882, Eff. 10/30/11.)
