                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

BREEDING AND TRANSFER OF DOGS AND CATS. (§ 53.15.2)

  BREEDING AND TRANSFER OF DOGS AND CATS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,168, Eff. 5/18/00, Oper. 11/15/00.)	The City Council
finds that there exists a serious pet overpopulation problem within the City,
that has resulted in a threat to public safety and health, inhumane treatment of
animals, mass euthanasia of dogs/cats at the local animal shelters and
escalating costs for animal care and control.  Further, the Board of Animal
Services Commissioners has found that uncontrolled breeding is the cause and,
without action aimed at the source, this problem and its serious consequences
will remain unabated.  Council finds that part of the solution is for all dogs
and cats over the age of four months to be spayed or neutered, unless their
owners purchase the appropriate licenses/permits for the privilege of
maintaining the animal intact and allowing it to breed.  Council also finds
that an increase in the license fee for unaltered dogs will encourage the owners
to spay/neuter their dog(s), in order to qualify for the much lower altered dog
license fee.  Further, Council finds that tighter regulation of the transfer of
dogs and cats will help alleviate the City’s pet overpopulation crisis by
allowing increased City control over the transfer of dogs and cats.	(a)	Animal
Ownership:	Animal Owner, for purposes of this section, shall mean any person
harboring, keeping or providing care or sustenance to a domestic animal for 30
or more consecutive days on property which he/she owns, rents or leases.  Such
a person shall be subject to the requirements of this chapter.  This definition
does not apply to government agencies, animal rescue organizations which have
demonstrated to the Department that they have implemented an ongoing spay/neuter
program as well as an adoption program, or humane societies or societies for the
prevention of cruelty to animals if such societies are incorporated under the
provisions of California Corporations Code Section 10400 and the Nonprofit
Public Benefit Corporation Law in Part 2 of the California Corporations Code,
beginning at Section 5110 and successor sections.	(b)	Intact Dogs and Cats: 
(Amended by Ord. No. 179,615, Eff. 4/8/08.)	(1)	No person who owns a cat over
the age of four months shall cause, permit, or allow the cat to be in a public
place unsupervised, unless the cat is spayed or neutered.  The term public
place shall include, but not be limited to, streets, highways, sidewalks,
carnivals, shopping malls, flea markets, boardwalks, and areas in front of
commercial establishments.  This requirement applies to all unaltered cats,
whether or not their owner(s) have obtained breeding permits pursuant to
Subsection (c), below.	(2)	No person, within the City of Los Angeles, shall own
a dog or cat over the age of four months that has not been spayed or neutered,
unless valid written documentation is provided to show proof that the animal is
exempt from the requirement to be spayed or neutered by reason of one of the
following, and is in compliance with Subdivisions (3) and (4) below:	A.	The dog
or cat is a breed approved by and is registered with a registry or association
recognized by the Department through its Commission, whose program and practices
are consistent with the humane treatment of animals, and the dog or cat is
actively used to show or compete and has competed in at least one show or
sporting competition hosted by or under the approval of the recognized registry
or association within the last two years, or is being trained or groomed to show
or compete and is too young to have yet competed.	B.  The dog has earned, or if
under three years old, is actively being trained and in the process of earning,
an agility, carting, herding, protection, rally, hunting, working, or other
title from a registry or association approved by the Department through its
Commission.	C.	The dog is being trained or has been appropriately trained and is
actively used in a manner that meets the definition of guide, signal or service
dog as set forth in Subdivisions (d), (e), and (f) of Section 365.5 of the Penal
Code, or the dog is enrolled in a guide, signal or service dog breeding program
administered by a person licensed under Chapter 9.5 (commencing with Section
7200) of Division 3 of the California Business and Professions Code.	D.	The dog
is appropriately trained or is in the process of being trained and is actively
used by law enforcement agencies or the military for law enforcement, military
or rescue activities.	E.	The owner of the dog or cat provides a letter to the
Department from a licensed veterinarian certifying that the animal’s health
would be best served by spaying or neutering after a specified date; or that due
to age, poor health, or illness it is unsafe to spay or neuter the animal; or
that arrangements have been made to spay or neuter the dog or cat within 60 days
after the compliance deadline and the dog or cat is spayed or neutered within
that 60-day period.  This letter shall include the veterinarian’s license
number, the date by which the animal may be safely spayed or neutered, and
updated periodically as necessary.  In addition, if the letter from the
licensed veterinarian certifies that arrangements have been made to spay or
neuter the dog within 60 days from the date the dog reaches the age of four
months, and the dog is spayed or neutered within that 60-day period, the owner
shall qualify for the lower license fee and license tax for an altered dog.  It
shall be the owner’s responsibility to comply with the spay/ neuter provisions
of this chapter, including paying the license fee and license tax.	F.	The dog or
cat has a valid breeding permit issued to the owner pursuant to Subsection (c)
below.	(3)	An unaltered dog or cat shall be implanted with an animal
identification device identifying the owner of the animal.	(4)	In addition to
meeting one of the exemptions in this section, the dog license application for
an unaltered dog shall contain the information requested by the Department,
including the identification number of the implanted animal identification
device, the name and address of the owner, and the location at which the dog
will be maintained.	(5)	A license for an unaltered dog shall not be
transferable, and shall not be issued to any person under the age of eighteen
years.	(6)	The provisions of this subsection become operative on October 1,
2008.  However, an unaltered dog that has a valid dog license from the
Department shall not be subject to this subsection until the dog license
expires, or October 1, 2009, whichever occurs first.	(7)	Any person owning,
possessing, harboring or having custody and control of a cat or dog in violation
of this subsection shall be given a notice to comply and information regarding
free and subsidized spay and neuter services.  If the violation is not
corrected within 60 days, it shall be deemed a second violation and in addition
to correcting the violation, the person shall pay a civil penalty in the amount
of $100.00 or shall be allowed to perform eight hours of community service. 
Failure to pay the civil penalty or perform the community service and/or failure
to correct the violation within the 60-day period, or any extension of that
period permitted by the Department, shall be deemed a third violation.  The
Department shall impose a civil penalty in the amount of $500.00 or allow the
person to perform 40 hours of community service, in addition to spaying or
neutering the dog or cat.	After July 1, 2009, if after 60 days from the date of
notification of a third violation, the $500.00 civil penalty is not paid or the
40 hours of community service is not performed and/or the owner still has not
spayed/neutered his/her dog(s) or cat(s) as required under Subsection (b) above,
the continuing violation of this subsection may also be deemed a
misdemeanor.	(8)	There is hereby established an Animal Services Spay/Neuter
Advisory Committee (Committee) for the purpose of advising the Board of Animal
Services Commissioners on the impact of the City’s spay/neuter policies on the
City’s low-income residents.  The Committee shall seek regular and systematic
input on its recommendations, especially from low-income residents.	A.	The
membership of the Committee shall consist of 15 persons appointed by the City
Council, with each Councilmember appointing one person to the Committee.	B.	The
General Manager of the Department, or his or her designee, shall serve as a
non-voting Secretary of the Committee.	C.	The Committee shall select one of its
members to be the chair of the Committee.  The chair will also be the conduit
between the Committee and the Commission, and if needed, with the Mayor and the
City Council.	D.	All proceedings of the Committee shall be subject to the
provisions of California Government Code Section 54950, et seq., as amended
(Brown Act).	E.	The Committee shall meet as frequently as necessary but at least
four times during the year.  The meetings of the Committee may be conducted by
teleconference as provided in the Brown Act.	F.	The members of the Committee
shall serve without compensation, including any travel or per diem
expenses.	G.	The Committee shall complete its work and dissolve by October 30,
2009.	H.	The Committee shall do the following:	(1)	Review the impact of the
spay/ neuter policies on the City’s low-income residents. 	(2)	Review the
number of animals spayed/neutered, total exemptions provided, the waiting list
if any for the spay/neuter services, the amount and timing of committed funding,
and recommendations for legislative and administrative action needed to ensure
that funding is allocated promptly to qualified providers of the spay/neuter
programs.	(3)	Review the quality of services and accountability
measures.	(4)	Review challenges faced by the spay/neuter program that impede the
provision of best possible services.	(5)	Make recommendations on any
improvements and changes to the spay/ neuter program that will enhance its
services and reduce the financial burden of the program on residents in
low-income areas.	(6)	Provide a preliminary written report containing an
evaluation of the program and any recommendations to the Commission, and provide
a copy to the Mayor and the City Council by March 30, 2009, and a final report
by October 30, 2009.	(c)	Breeding Permit:	(1)	No person shall cause or allow any
dog or cat owned, harbored or kept within the City of Los Angeles to breed
without first obtaining a breeding permit, as described below.  The term
breeding permit means a written authorization, issued annually by the General
Manager, giving its lawful holder permission to breed a dog or a cat.	(2)	Each
breeding permit shall be valid for one year from the date of issuance, and may
be renewed annually, before its expiration date.  Each applicant for such a
permit shall pay an annual fee of $235.00 or such other fee established in the
manner set forth in Subsection (a) of Section 53.12 and promulgated by the
Department.  A separate permit must be obtained for each owned dog or cat that
is allowed to breed.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,341, Eff. 11/14/10.)	(3)	The
Department shall administer an animal breeding permit program to allow the
breeding of unaltered dogs and cats consistent with criteria and according to
procedures established by the General Manager pursuant to Section 53.58 of this
Code.  Under no circumstances shall such a permit be issued to a person who has
been convicted of animal cruelty or neglect.	(4)	In addition to the criteria and
procedures established by the General Manager pursuant to Paragraph 3 of this
subsection, all breeding permits shall contain the following terms and
conditions:	A.	The owner of an unaltered female dog or cat shall not allow the
whelping of more than one litter in any household within the permit year. 
Notwithstanding this provision, the General Manager is hereby authorized, upon
application of a permittee, to allow on a one time basis the whelping of up to
two dog or cat litters per breeding animal within any domestic household within
a permit year, if the permittee establishes, according to regulations
promulgated by the General Manager, that such breeding is required to protect
the health of the animal or avert a substantial economic loss to the
permittee.  In the event that a permittee is forced to euthanize a litter of
dogs or cats, the General Manager may authorize the whelping of one additional
litter of dogs or cats within the same permit year by the permittee;	B.	No
offspring may be sold, adopted, bartered, or otherwise transferred, whether for
compensation or otherwise, until it has reached the age of at least eight
weeks;	C.	No offspring may be sold or adopted until immunized against common
diseases.  The sale or adoption of a dog or cat shall include a statement
signed by the seller or adopter attesting to the signatory’s knowledge of the
animal’s health, and the animal’s immunization history;	D.	Any holder of a
breeding permit who advertises to the public the availability of any dog or cat
for sale, adoption, or transfer, whether for compensation or otherwise, must
prominently display the permit number in any such advertisement.  Further, the
breeding permit holder must provide the permit number to any person who
purchases, adopts or receives any animal from the permit holder and include the
permit number on any receipt of sale or transfer document;	E.	Commercial
establishments selling locally bred dogs or cats shall prominently display the
breeding permit number(s) of the breeder(s) whose dogs and cats are sold in said
establishments and any other pertinent information required by the General
Manager; Commercial establishments selling dogs and cats which were not bred
within the City of Los Angeles shall prominently display the name and address of
the breeder(s) of such dogs and cats and any other pertinent information
required by the General Manager;	F.	Any breeding permit holder selling or
otherwise transferring a dog or a cat, whether for compensation or otherwise,
shall submit to the Los Angeles Department of Animal Services the name, address,
and telephone number of the animal’s new owner within five days from the sale
or other transfer, on a Department approved form; and	G.	Any breeding permit
holder or commercial establishment which sells or otherwise transfers a dog or
cat, whether for compensation or otherwise, shall provide to the new animal
owner City application(s) for a license and permit as well as written
information regarding the license and permit requirements of the City of Los
Angeles applicable to such animal.	(5)	The following animals are exempt from the
breeding permit requirements:	A.	Dogs documented as having been appropriately
trained and actively used by law enforcement agencies for law enforcement and
rescue activities;	B.	Dogs documented as guide, signal, or service dogs pursuant
to California Penal Code Section 365.5(d), (e) &#038; (f) and successor
sections;	C.	Dogs and cats certified by a licensed veterinarian as not being
suitable subjects for spaying and neutering due to health reasons;	D.	Dogs and
cats under the care of governmental animal control agencies; animal rescue
organizations which have demonstrated to the Department that they have
implemented an ongoing spay/neuter plan, as well as an adoption plan; or humane
societies or societies for the prevention of cruelty to animals, if such
societies are incorporated under the provisions of California Corporations Code
Section 10400 and the Nonprofit Public Benefit Corporation Law in Part 2 of the
California Corporations Code, beginning at Section 5110, and successor sections;
and	E.	Dogs documented as enrolled in a guide, signal or service dog breeding
program administered by a person licensed under Chapter 9.5 (commencing with
Section 7200) of Division 3 of the California Business and Professions
Code.	(d)	Penalties:	(1)	Any cat or dog owner found by the Department to be in
violation of the breeding permit provisions of this section may correct the
violation(s) by providing conclusive proof to the Department that the dog(s) or
cat(s) have been spayed or neutered, or by obtaining the necessary permit(s)
mentioned in this section, no later than forty five days from the date when the
Department had first notified the owner of the violation.  Should the owner
fail to correct the violation(s) in the manner described above, the Department
shall impose a $500.00 civil penalty on the dog or cat owner.  Notice of this
penalty shall be served by the Department on the dog or cat owner in the manner
allowed by Section 11(i) of this Code.  This penalty shall not be waived by the
Department upon the transfer or abandonment of the dog or cat by the non
compliant owner.  This penalty shall be imposed in addition to any other
applicable civil or criminal penalties.	If the civil penalty mentioned above is
not paid and the owner does not spay/neuter his/her dog(s) or cat(s) or obtains
the breeding permit(s) required under Subsection (c), above, within fifteen days
from the date when the Department first notified the owner of the imposition of
the civil penalty mention in Section (d)(1), the continuing violation of the
breeding permit requirement of this section becomes a misdemeanor and may be
prosecuted as such.	(2)	The Department may revoke any permit issued pursuant to
this section upon a finding that the permit holder has violated its terms and
conditions.  Such a finding shall be made after an administrative hearing
conducted in accordance with the provisions of Section 53.18.5 of this Code;
provided, however, that a finding by the Department’s hearing examiner that
such violation had occurred, if this finding is sustained by the General
Manager, shall result in the permit’s revocation, notwithstanding the
provisions of Section 53.18.5(l) of this Code.	(3)	Except as specifically
mentioned in Subsection (d)(1) and (2), above, failure to comply with any of the
requirements mentioned in Subsections (b) and (c) of Section 53.15.2 of this
Code is an infraction punishable by a $50.00 fine for the first occurrence,
$75.00 for the second occurrence and $100.00 for each subsequent
occurrence.	(e)	Sale, Adoption and Other Transfers of Dogs and Cats:	(1)	Any
person who offers or provides, whether for compensation or otherwise, any dog or
cat for sale or other type of transfer, shall disclose to the transferee
information regarding the license and permit requirements of the City of Los
Angeles applicable to the transferred animal.	(2)	No person shall present any
dog or cat for sale, adoption, barter, exchange, or adoption, whether for
compensation or otherwise, in any public place, without first obtaining a permit
pursuant to Los Angeles Municipal Code section 53.50.  The term public place
shall include, but not be limited to, streets, highways, sidewalks, carnivals,
shopping malls, flea markets, boardwalks, and areas in front of commercial
establishments.  This prohibition shall not apply to:	A.	Government agencies;
non-profit animal rescue organizations exempt from taxation under Internal
Revenue Code section 501(c)(3); or humane societies or societies for the
prevention of cruelty to animals if such societies are incorporated under the
provisions of California Corporations Code Section 10400 and the Nonprofit
Public Benefit Corporation Law in Part 2 of the California Corporations Code,
beginning at Section 5110;	B.	Permitted dog or cat shows; or	C.	Permitted pet
stores which sell or otherwise transfer dogs or cats, whether for compensation
or otherwise, within the store.	(3)	No person shall give away any dog or cat as
a prize or as an inducement to enter into any contest, lottery, drawing, game or
competition.	(4)	No person shall give away any dog or cat as an inducement to
enter a place of business, or to enter into a business arrangement.	(5)	No
person shall sell, barter, exchange or offer for adoption, whether for
compensation or otherwise, any dog or cat to any minor under the age of eighteen
years, without the written permission of one of the minor’s parents or legal
guardians.	(6)	Commercial establishments selling dogs and cats which were not
bred within the City of Los Angeles shall prominently display the name and
address of the breeder(s) of such dogs and cats and any other pertinent
information required by the General Manager.	(7)	Failure to display the breeding
permit number or include it in any advertisement for sale, adoption or other
transfer of dogs and cats is an infraction punishable by a $50.00 fine for the
first occurrence, $75.00 for the second occurrence and $100.00 for each
subsequent occurrence.	(8)	Possession of a valid permit under this section of
the Code does not entitle the permit holder to engage in an activity which is
otherwise prohibited by law.	(9)	No person shall sell, offer or advertise for
sale or adoption, barter, transfer or broker the transfer or sale for
compensation or otherwise, any dog, cat or other animal under the age of six
months within the City of Los Angeles, without first obtaining a transfer
permit.  This requirement shall not apply to:  (i) pet dealers who conform to
the provisions of California Health &#038; Safety Code Section 122125-122220 or
pet stores or other commercial establishments permitted to sell or transfer dogs
and cats and who are regulated by the Department; (ii) governmental agencies;
(iii) non-profit animal rescue organizations exempt from taxation under Internal
Revenue Code Section 501(c)(3) that do not breed animals, are registered with
the Department and comply with the rules and regulations of the Department,
including early age spaying and neutering; (iv) humane societies or societies
for the prevention of cruelty to animals if such societies are incorporated
under the provisions of the California Corporations Code Section 10400 and the
Non-Profit Public Benefit Corporation Law in Part 2 of the California
Corporations Code, beginning at Section 5110; or (v) a person who has a valid
breeding permit from the Department and is selling or transferring a puppy or
kitten pursuant to the breeding permit.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,353, Eff.
11/18/10.)	(10)	The term transfer permit means a written authorization issued
annually in accordance with the permit process established in Sections 53.50 and
53.58, giving the permit holder permission to sell or transfer for compensation
or otherwise, animals under the age of six months including dogs or cats.  Each
holder of a transfer permit shall pay an annual fee of $120.00 or an amount as
revised by the Board of Animal Services Commissioners and approved by the City
Council, and abide by the rules and regulations promulgated by the General
Manager, including but not limited to limitations on the number of animals that
may be transferred annually.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,353, Eff.
11/18/10.)	(11)	(Added by Ord. No. 181,353, Eff. 11/18/10.)  In addition to the
criteria and procedures established by the General Manager and such information
as the General Manager shall request, the permit holder shall:	A.	Prominently
display the transfer permit number for the sale, adoption, or transfer of any
animal under the age of six months, in any advertisement including but not
limited to newspapers, newsletters, flyers, magazines or other publications,
electronic media, internet or the posting of signs;	B.	Certify that he or she is
over the age of eighteen years and has not been convicted of animal cruelty or
neglect;	C.	Provide to any person who purchases, adopts or receives an animal
under the age of six months a statement signed by the permit holder attesting to
the signatory’s knowledge of the animal’s health and immunization history,
and include a copy of the City’s license and permit requirements.  The
transfer permit number must appear on the sale or transfer document;	D.	Provide
the Department with the name, address and contact information for the breeder(s)
and other source or origin of the animal, as well as the location at which the
animal is located or will be kept if different from the address on the transfer
permit;	E.	Agree not to transfer a dog or cat until it has reached the age of
eight weeks, has been weaned, micro-chipped, immunized against common diseases,
and in the case of a dog four months of age or older, has received its rabies
vaccination.  Proof of the rabies and other vaccinations shall be provided to
the new owner;  	F.	In the case of the sale, adoption or transfer of a dog,
submit to the Department the name, address and telephone number of the new owner
along with the micro-chip information on a Department approved form within five
(5) days from the date of sale or transfer;	G.	Agree not to transfer any dog,
cat or other animal under the age of six months to any minor under the age of
eighteen years;	H.	Agree not to knowingly sell or transfer an animal for use in
dog or animal fighting or in any other illegal activity;	I.	Obtain a City
business license and if applicable, a seller’s permit or license and/or resale
and tax identification number from the State Board of Equalization or any other
required license or permit; and	J.	Comply with all tax laws and
regulations.	(12)	A violation of the transfer permit provisions of this Section
may be prosecuted as a misdemeanor or an infraction or punishable by means of an
administrative citation.  Failure to comply with the terms and conditions of
the transfer permit and applicable law shall also be grounds for the revocation
or suspension of the transfer permit.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,353, Eff.
11/18/10.)
