                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

RESTRICTED DOG PERMIT. (§ 53.34.3)

  RESTRICTED DOG PERMIT.
	(Added by Ord. No. 181,930, Eff. 12/11/11.)	(a)	Following a hearing in
accordance with Section 53.18.5 or Section 53.34.4, if the Hearing Examiner
determines that the bite, attack or injury was the result of improper or
negligent training, handling or maintenance, and that the owner or custodian is
able and willing to properly train, handle or maintain the dog and that a
similar incident is not likely to occur if the terms, conditions and
restrictions are followed, the Hearing Examiner may recommend that a be issued
as part of the terms, conditions or restrictions pursuant to Subsection (l) of
Section 53.18.5, to include, but not limited to, some or all of the following
additional terms, conditions or restrictions to protect the public health,
safety and welfare:	1.	That in addition to the dog license tax and fee, the
owner shall pay a Restricted Dog Permit fee of $120.00 annually, which is
subject to reassessment in accordance with Section 53.12 (a).	2.	That the dog
owner obtain and maintain liability insurance in an amount not less than
$100,000 or in an amount determined by the City’s Risk Manager, provide proof
of insurance and notify the City at least thirty (30) days prior to cancellation
or non-renewal of the insurance coverage.	3.	Post warning signs at all property
entrances and notify the occupants of the adjacent property and/or within a 150
foot radius of the Restricted Dog Permit.	4.	That the dog not be transferred or
placed in the custody of another person without the written consent of the
General Manager, except in a licensed dog kennel or with a California licensed
veterinarian.  The dog owner must notify any transferee, kennel, veterinarian
or other custodian that the dog is subject to a Restricted Dog Permit.	5.	Other
terms, conditions and restrictions may include but are not limited to the
training, handling and maintenance of the dog, the wearing of a muzzle, properly
securing the owner’s or custodian’s property and that the dog only be walked
by the owner or another responsible adult.	6.	That the dog owner and custodian,
if separate from the owner, sign a declaration that he or she will abide by the
terms, conditions and restrictions of the license and the Restricted Dog
Permit.	(b)	A Restricted Dog Permit shall not be issued for a dog that has
fatally injured a human being or to a dog owner if any current or previously
owned dog of that owner has fatally injured a human being.	(c)	A Restricted Dog
Permit may be rescinded by the General Manager if the owner demonstrates that
measures taken by the owner or changed circumstances have mitigated the danger
to the public, including the permanent removal of the dog from the City.	(d)	The
Department may amend or revoke a Restricted Dog Permit and the dog license
following a hearing if the owner has failed to comply with the terms, conditions
or restrictions of the Permit or of the dog license.
