                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

IMPOUNDMENT – BITING OR ATTACKING ANIMAL. (§ 53.34.2)

  IMPOUNDMENT – BITING OR ATTACKING ANIMAL.
	(Added by Ord. No. 162,537, Eff. 8/8/87.)	(a)	The Department shall have the
power to summarily and immediately impound a dog or other animal where there is
evidence it has attacked, bitten or injured any human being or other animal
pending any court or dog license or animal permit revocation proceeding arising
from the attack, bite or injury; or to undertake a hearing pursuant to Section
53.34.4. A duly authorized Department employee may enter and inspect private
property to enforce the provisions of this section as provided by Section 53.03
of this article.	Failure to surrender to the Department upon demand a dog or
other animal which is subject to being impounded pursuant to this section is a
misdemeanor.	A dog or other animal, impounded pursuant to the authority of this
section, shall be returned to the owner or custodian as provided by Section
53.34.4 or when it is no longer required as evidence, or if a notice of a
hearing pursuant to Section 53.34.4 to declare the dog or other animal a
dangerous animal has not been served on the owner or custodian within seven days
after the impoundment.	(b)	In lieu of impound, the General Manager may permit
the dog or other animal to be confined at the owner’s or custodian’s expense
in a Department approved dog kennel or veterinary facility within the City or at
the owner’s or custodian’s residence provided that the owner or
custodian:	1.	Shall not remove the dog or other animal from the kennel,
veterinary facility or residence without the prior written approval of the
General Manager or his authorized representative; and	2.	Shall make the dog or
other animal available for observation and inspection by Department personnel or
members of law enforcement or their authorized representatives.	(c)	The General
Manager or his designated representative may have a dog or other animal,
impounded or confined as provided in (a) or (b) above, permanently identified by
means of photo identification prior to release from impound or confinement.
