                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PUBLIC SPAY AND NEUTER CLINIC. (§ 53.31)

  PUBLIC SPAY AND NEUTER CLINIC.	(a)	Authority for Clinic and Fees.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 180,697, Eff. 6/26/09.)  The General Manager is hereby authorized
and empowered to establish Department operated clinics at which members of the
public may have dogs and cats spayed or neutered in a humane manner upon payment
of a $40.00 fee for each animal, or such other fee established in the manner set
forth in Subsection (a) of Section 53.12 and promulgated by the
Department.	Notwithstanding the foregoing, no fee shall be charged for spaying
or neutering a dog whose owner has applied for and qualifies to be issued a free
license under Subsection (f) of Section 53.15 of this Code for such dog.	Nor
shall a fee be charged for spaying or neutering a cat owned and maintained by a
person 62 years of age or older, provided that the combined adjusted gross
income of all members of the household in which such person resides is less than
the “very low income” limitation for residents of the City of Los Angeles,
using the figure in effect on the preceding first day of April as determined by
the United States Housing Act of 1937, as amended, and published by the United
States Department of Housing and Urban Development.  No more than three cats
per person or household may be spayed or neutered free of charge, except that
upon satisfactory proof of loss or death of a cat that was spayed or neutered
free of charge under the provisions of this Subsection, a replacement cat may be
spayed or neutered free of charge for the same person.  (Amended by Ord. No.
181,268, Eff. 9/26/10.)	(b)	Consent Form and Waiver.  (Added by Ord. No.
141,123, Eff. 11/19/70.)  Persons submitting dogs or cats for the above service
shall sign a consent form certifying thereon under penalty of perjury that they
are the owner of said animals or are otherwise authorized to present the animal
for the above operation and such persons may be required to furnish proof of
such ownership or authority.	Such consent shall contain a waiver of any and all
liability of the City, the Department of Animal Services and City employees for
any injury or death to an animal arising out of the aforementioned operation or
any services provided incidental thereto.	(c)	Board and Care Charge.  (Added by
Ord. No. 141,123, Eff. , 11/19/70.)  The department shall establish a return
date by which persons submitting animals for the above operation shall pick up
said animals or be subject to a reasonable board and care fee to commence the
day after such return date.	Failure to pick up an animal within 15 days of said
return date shall be deemed abandonment of such animal and the General Manager
may dispose of it by sale or destruction.	(d)	Suspension of fees.  The fees and
charges imposed by this section are hereby suspended for the period September
26, 1987 through and including January 22, 1988. (Added by Ord. No. 162,744,
Eff. 9/24/87.)
