                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ANIMALS, SALE OF – AS NOVELTIES – ON STREETS. (§ 53.42)

  ANIMALS, SALE OF – AS NOVELTIES – ON STREETS.	(a)	It shall be unlawful
for any person to display, sell, offer for sale, barter or give away, upon any
street or sidewalk, or other public place in the City of Los Angeles, any
rabbits, baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl, as pets or novelties, whether or
not dyed, colored or otherwise artificially treated.	(b)	No person shall sell,
offer for sale, barter or display any rabbits, baby chicks, ducklings or other
fowl which have been dyed, colored or otherwise treated so as to impart to them
an artificial color.	(c)	No person shall sell, offer for sale, barter or give
away any rabbits, baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl unless such person
provides proper brooder facilities for the care of such baby chicks, ducklings
or other fowl during the time they are in the possession of such person.	(d)	No
person shall sell, offer for sale, barter or give away any rabbits, baby chicks,
ducklings or other fowl under four weeks of age in any quantity less than
six.	(e)	This section shall not be construed to prohibit the display or sale of
rabbits, natural chicks, ducklings or other fowl, in proper facilities by
dealers, hatcheries or stores engaged in the business of selling the same, to be
raised for food purposes.	(f)	It shall be unlawful for any person to display,
sell, offer for sale, barter or give away, upon any street or sidewalk of the
City of Los Angeles, as pets or novelties:  (1) any fish, turtle, snake,
lizard, chameleon or other reptile; (2) any bird, cat, dog, fowl, guinea pig,
rodent or other animal.	(g)	This section shall not be construed to prohibit the
display or sale of animals, birds, fish or reptiles legally for sale in licensed
pet shops, kennels, aviaries or fish hatcheries.	(h)	It shall be unlawful for
any person to purchase, offer to purchase, barter or receive without cost, upon
any street or sidewalk of the City of Los Angeles or other public place in the
City of Los Angeles: (1) any baby chicks, ducklings, birds or other fowl; (2)
any fish, turtle, snake, lizard, chameleon or other reptile; or (3) any rabbit,
cat, dog, guinea pig, rodent or other animal.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,851, Eff.
9/25/11.)	(i)	A violation of this Section may also be enforced by means of an
administrative citation and penalty in the amount of $250.00 for the first
violation, $500.00 for the second violation and $1,000.00 for the third
violation.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,851, Eff. 9/25/11.)
