                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

REGULATION OF SENTRY DOG SERVICES. (§ 53.64)

  REGULATION OF SENTRY DOG SERVICES.
	(Title and Section amended by Ord. No. 157,093, Eff. 11/6/82.)	Purpose of
Section – The need for technical skill, training and experience, and other
fundamental qualities and qualifications in persons engaged in the business of
providing sentry dog services, of training sentry dogs, and of handling sentry
dogs having been established and demonstrated, and in order to safeguard the
health and safety or the general public, of persons who acquire such dogs and of
the dogs themselves, it is the purpose of the City of Los Angeles, in enacting
this ordinance, to make appropriate provision for the licensing and regulation
of sentry dog businesses, trainers, handlers, and
owners.	A.	Definitions.	(1)	“Sentry Dog” means any dog trained to guard,
protect, patrol or defend any premises, area or yard, or any dog trained as a
sentry or to protect, defend or guard any person or property or any dog which is
schutzhund or any similar classification.	(2)	“Trainer” means any person who
engages in the practice of training a sentry dog in or for placement in the City
of Los Angeles.	(3)	“Handler” means any person who has custody of sentry
dogs for transportation, placement, drop-off, or pickup to or at a location
within the City of Los Angeles as part of a sentry dog service.	(4)	“Sentry
Dog Service” means engaging in the business of providing sentry dogs in the
City of Los Angeles.	(5)	“Person” means any individual, partnership, firm,
joint stock company, corporation, association, trust, estate, or other legal
entity.	(6)	“Owner” means any person who has purchased or obtained legal
custody of a sentry dog.	(7)	“Licensee” means any person licensed pursuant
to the provisions of this section.	B.	Licensing.	(1)	No person shall engage in
the business of providing sentry dog service in the City of Los Angeles, or
engage in the practice of training sentry dogs or hold himself or herself out as
being able to do so, or act as a handler, unless licensed pursuant to this
section.	(2)	No person shall own or have the care or custody of a sentry dog
unless the person has secured a sentry dog license, tag, and identification
number from the Department of Animal Services. The fee for each sentry dog
license shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) per year  (Fee Amended by Ord. No.
170,171, Eff. 1/20/95.). The payment of the fee for the sentry dog license shall
be in lieu of the dog license tax imposed by Section 53.15 of this
article.	(3)	The General Manager of the Department of Animal Services shall
establish such standards as he or she deems necessary and proper to carry out
the purposes of this section in determining the fitness of applicants for sentry
dog trainer or handler, and for the sentry dogs themselves, and shall promulgate
rules and regulations to effectuate the licensing and tagging of each dog as are
deemed necessary. Each applicant for sentry dog trainer or handler shall satisfy
the General Manager that he or she is qualified by training or experience to
train or handle sentry dogs, to provide humane care and treatment of all dogs
under his or her jurisdiction, and that he or she has adequate facilities for
such training or handling. In formulating such standards, the General Manager
shall seek the assistance of a committee of not less than three persons
knowledgeable in the field of sentry dog training. Such standards shall include
veterinary and health care standards to be observed by trainers and handlers.
The General Manager shall appoint the members of the committee for three year
terms. The initial appointments to the committee shall consist of one member for
a one year term, one member for a two year term, and all other members for a
three year term. The members of the committee may be replaced by the General
Manager, without cause, prior to the expiration of their terms.	C.	Rules and
Regulations.  Pursuant to the procedures set forth in the Los Angeles Municipal
Code the General Manager may make such rules and regulations as are reasonably
necessary to:	(1)	Establish the procedures and responsibilities of the
committee;	(2)	Establish and administer an examination of applicants for a
license to train or handle sentry dogs. Any person possessing a license to train
sentry dogs may also handle sentry dogs without the necessity of a handler’s
license;	(3)	Issue annual licenses for sentry dog services, trainers, and
handlers;	(4)	Regulate the annual renewal of licenses including the necessity of
reexamination of trainers and handlers.	D.	Application For Licenses.	(1)	An
application for a license to operate, maintain, and conduct a sentry dog service
in the City shall be filed together with an application fee of two hundred
dollars ($200.00) (Fee Amended by Ord. No. 170,171, Eff. 1/20/95.) with the
Department of Animal Services. An annual fee of one hundren dollars ($100.00)
(Fee Amended by Ord. No. 170,171, Eff. 1/20/95.) shall be required for the
renewal of a business license. The application shall state the name, address and
type of organization of the sentry dog service, its method of operation, the
names, addresses and physical description of its officers, proprietors, and
employees, and such other identification and information including, but not
limited to, fingerprints and recent photographs of the applicant, its officers,
proprietors, and employees as may be deemed necessary by the General Manager of
the Department of Animal Services.	(2)	The application for a license to conduct
a sentry dog service in the City, and each annual renewal request, must be
accompanied by a surety bond underwritten by a corporate surety admitted to do
business in California, in a form approved by the City Attorney, in the sum of
$15,000.00 blanket coverage for each and all employees, officers, and
proprietors of the sentry dog service. The bond shall be conditioned upon the
faithful and honest conduct of the business of sentry dog service by the
licensee and also conditioned upon faithful compliance with all of the
ordinances of the City and the laws of the State of California, in force, or
which may thereafter be adopted. The licensee and sureties named in the bond,
and their successors and assigns, shall be jointly and severally liable to the
City and to any person, firm or corporation for damages suffered by reason of
the wrongful acts of the licensee, its officers, employees, or proprietors in
breach of the condition of the bond. The bond shall not be void upon any one or
more recoveries thereunder, but may be sued and recovered upon from time to time
by any person, firm or corporation aggrieved or damaged, to the extent thereof.
The bond shall be renewed to its original amount on each anniversary. Notice of
any proposed cancellation of the bond shall be sent by registered mail to the
Insurance and Bonds Section of the Office of the City Attorney and to the
Department of Animal Services not less than 30 days in advance of the
cancellation date.	(3)	A sentry dog service shall furnish evidence of the
following insurance with the Department of Animal Services upon request:
workers’ compensation, general liability, and automobile liability.	(4)	Each
applicant for a sentry dog trainer license shall be a natural person and have at
least 2000 hours of actual commercial experience as a trainer and have trained
seven (7) dogs; or an equivalent amount of experience, as determined by the
committee or General Manager. Each applicant for a sentry dog trainer license
shall pay at the time of filing the application the sum of two hundred dollars
($200.00)   (Fee Amended by Ord. No. 170,171, Eff. 1/20/95.) to the Department
of Animal Services. An annual fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) (Fee Amended
by Ord. No. 170,171, Eff. 1/20/95.) shall be required for the renewal of a
license.	(5)	Each applicant for a sentry dog handler license shall be a natural
person and shall pay a fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) at the time of
filing the application. An annual fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) shall be
required for the renewal of a license.	E.	Necessity of License.  It shall be
unlawful for any person to engage in any business or occupation licensed under
this section within the City of Los Angeles unless such person holds a valid and
unimpaired license pursuant to the provisions of this section. Violation of any
provision of this section is a misdemeanor.	F.	Denial of License.  The General
Manager may refuse to issue a license to a sentry dog service, trainer, or
handler on the grounds that the applicant, or an officer or managing employee of
the applicant, has committed or sustained one of the following within the last
five (5) years:	(1)	Conviction of a crime. A conviction within the meaning of
this section means a plea or verdict of guilty or a plea of nolo contendre. Any
action which the General Manager is permitted to take following the
establishment of a conviction may be taken when the time for appeal has elapsed,
or the judgment of conviction has been affirmed or on appeal and is final, or
when an order granting probation is made suspending the imposition of sentence,
irrespective of a subsequent order under the provisions of Section 1203.4 of the
Penal Code; or	(2)	Any act involving dishonesty, fraud, or deceit with the
intent to benefit oneself or another, or injure another; or	(3)	Any act
involving violence with the intent to benefit oneself or another, or injure
another; or	(4)	Any act involving cruelty to an animal; or	(5)	Any act which if
done by a licensee would be grounds for suspension or revocation of the
license.	The General Manager may deny a license pursuant to this subsection only
if the crime or act is related to the qualifications, functions or duties of a
sentry dog service, trainer or handler. The General Manager may also refuse to
issue a license under this section if the General Manager determines that the
applicant has made any false statements or given any false information in
connection with any application required under this section.	G.	Grounds for
Suspension or Revocation of License.  The General Manager may suspend or revoke
a license issued under this section if the General Manager determines that the
licensee has:	(1)	Made any false statement or given any false information in
connection with an application for a license, renewal of a license, or
reinstatement of a license;	(2)	Violated any provision of this
Article;	(3)	Violated any rule or regulation of the General Manager adopted
pursuant to the authority contained in this section;	(4)	Committed any act which
would be grounds for denial of a license;	(5)	A sentry dog service has employed
or permitted a person to act as a sentry dog trainer or handler within the City
of Los Angeles, as defined in this section, who is not in possession of a valid
license issued pursuant to this section.	H.	Revocation or Suspension of
License.  Any license issued under this section may be revoked or suspended
under the procedure contained in Section 22.02 of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code.	I.	Qualification of a Dog.  No person shall sell, give away or let for
hire any sentry dog unless the following requirements have been met:	(1)	The dog
has been immunized against distemper and rabies;	(2)	A certificate of rabies
vaccination is current and valid, issued by a licensed
veterinarian.	J.	Identification Tag.  Every trainer, handler, or owner of a
sentry dog shall see to it that such sentry dog wears a clearly visible tag
issued by the Department of Animal Services. Such tag shall have stamped or
printed thereon the words “Sentry Dog, City of Los Angeles, Department of
Animal Services, Fiscal Year .&thinsp;.&thinsp;. ., if found, call 485-5763.”
Such tag shall be suspended not less than three quarters of an inch and not more
than two inches from the collar worn by the dog. Said collar shall be composed
of leather affixed with suitable metal buckle or metal training collar (choke
chain) to prevent loss of identification tag. Lost or stolen tags shall be
reported to the Department and shall be immediately replaced by the Department
at a reasonable replacement cost.	K.	Report of Transfer, Loss or Theft
Required.	(1)	Any person who sells, leases, rents, gives away or otherwise
transfers ownership or possession of any sentry dog shall, within ten days of
the transfer, file a report with the General Manager on a form prescribed by him
or her, containing the name and address of the person to whom such dog was
transferred, a description and registration or identification number of the dog,
and any other information the General Manager deems appropriate.	(2)	Any person
whose sentry dog is lost, stolen, or whose dog dies or is seriously injured
shall, within three days of the loss, theft, injury or death, file a report with
the General Manager, on a form prescribed by him or her containing a description
and registration or identification number of the dog and any other information
the General Manager deems appropriate.	(3)	Any humane society, animal shelter,
boarding kennel, pet shop, veterinarian or other person who receives a stray
sentry dog, tagged or otherwise identified as sentry dog, other than a bona fide
sale or other transfer as described under subdivisions in this section shall
immediately notify the General Manager of the receipt, giving all particulars.
Any dogs received by any humane society, animal shelter, boarding kennel, pet
shop, veterinarian or other person under such circumstances shall be returned to
the sentry dog owner or returned to the Department of Animal Services for legal
disposition.	L.	Inspection of Premises.  Premises used for training or sale of
sentry dogs and records thereof shall be open for inspection at reasonable hours
by any employee of the Department charged by the General Manager with the duty
of making inspections for the purpose of inspecting said premises or records to
insure compliance with the requirements of this section and the rules and
regulations adopted by the General Manager.
