                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

GUARD DOGS. (§ 53.66)

  GUARD DOGS.
	(Added by Ord. No. 159,914, Eff. 7/5/85.)	Purpose of Section – In order to
safeguard the health and safety of the General Public from the danger of guard
dogs used by industrial or commercial establishments and to insure the humane
treatment of such guard dogs, it is the purpose of the City of Los Angeles in
enacting this ordinance to make appropriate provisions for the regulation of
guard dogs.	A.	Definitions.	(1)	“Guard Dog” means any dog kept, used or
maintained on any commercial or industrial premises or any dog kept, used or
maintained on any industrial or commercial premises to guard, protect, patrol or
defend any property or person other than a sentry dog licensed under Section
53.64 of this Code.	(2)	“Premises” means any industrial or commercial
property, building, structure, business, firm, facility, or
enterprise.	B.	Required Signs and Information.  No person shall keep, use or
maintain any guard dog on any premises governed by this section unless the
premises are posted to warn of a guard dog on the premises.  The warning shall
consist of a sign placed at each entrance and exit to the premises and in a
position to be legible from the sidewalk or ground level adjacent to the sign. 
If the premises are not enclosed by a wall or fence, a sign shall be placed at
every entrance and exit to each structure on the premises.  Each sign shall
measure at least 10&#038;″ × 14&#038;″ and shall contain block lettering on
a white background stating “Warning Guard Dog on Duty”.  The sign shall
have a universal depiction of a silhouette of a dog with its mouth open and its
teeth bared.  In addition, the sign shall set forth the name, address and phone
number of the person or persons to be notified during any hour of the day or
night who will proceed immediately to the location to permit entry to the
premises by any authorized representative of the Department.  This section
shall not apply to signs required by Section 53.33(b) governing sentry dogs. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 175,453, Eff. 10/26/03.)	C.	Immunization.  	(1)	No person
shall keep, use or maintain any guard dog on any premises unless each dog has
been vaccinated against rabies as required by Section 53.51 of this code and
each dog has a current and valid certificate of rabies vaccination issued by a
licensed veterinarian, nor shall any person keep, use or maintain any guard dog
unless each dog has been immunized against distemper, hepatitis, leptospirosis
and parvovirus and each dog has a current and valid certificate of such
immunization issued by a licensed veterinarian.	(2)	The current and valid
certificate of rabies immunization and immunization against the common diseases
required by Section C.(1) must be issued by a licensed veterinarian and shall be
kept on the premises and shown upon the request or demand of any authorized
representative of the Department.	D.	Veterinary Examination.  No person shall
keep, use or maintain any guard dog on any premises unless each guard dog has a
complete physical examination including blood, fecal, and urine analysis by a
licensed veterinarian who shall certify each dog to be free of any infections or
disease process. Such examination and certification for the health of each guard
dog shall be renewed each calendar year. Every dog currently used as a guard dog
shall be examined and certified for health prior to January 1, 1986.	(1)	Any
guard dog found not to be free of infections or disease process by the
veterinarian shall be removed from the premises immediately.	(2)	A copy of the
veterinarian’s annual certification of health shall be kept on the premises
and shown upon the request or demand of any authorized representative of the
Department.	(3)	A copy of the veterinarian’s annual certification of health
shall be filed with the Department within 15 days of its issuance.	(4)	If an
authorized representative of the Department has reasonable cause to believe that
a guard dog is injured, sick, diseased, unwell, or malnourished or constitutes a
danger to the public health and safety, said representative may order the guard
dog to be removed from the premises until a new certification of health is
issued by a licensed veterinarian. The Department representative shall be
notified prior to returning the dog to the premises.	E.	Tags.  Notwithstanding
Section 53.21, no person shall keep, use or maintain any guard dog on any
premises unless each guard dog has its license tag securely affixed to its
collar, harness or other device.	F.	Confinement Requirements.  It shall be
unlawful for any person to tether, fasten, chain, tie, restrain, or cause a
guard dog to be fastened, chained, tied, or restrained, to houses, trees,
fences, garages or other stationary objects, by means of a rope, chain, strap,
or other physical restraint method, for the purpose of confinement on real
property.  “Confinement,” for purposes of this section, shall mean the
dog’s physical restraint to real property for more time than it is necessary
for the dog owner to complete a task that requires that the dog be temporarily
physically restrained to real property.  When confined to real property, the
dog must be tethered by a non-choke type collar or a body harness to a tether at
least three times the body length of the dog, which allows the dog access to
food, water, and shelter as described above, and be free from entanglement. 
This section shall not affect a person’s ability to use appropriate electronic
means of confinement.  (Amended by Ord. No. 175,453, Eff. 10/26/03.)	G.	Shelter
Requirements.  No person shall keep, use, or maintain a guard dog on any
premises unless the dog is provided full access to an enclosed building, dog
house, or similar shelter at all times.  The shelter shall: 	(1)	Have a top,
bottom, and at least three sides.	(2)	Have a floor raised off the ground, free
of cracks, depressions and rough areas where insects, rodents or eggs from
internal parasites may lodge.  An effective program for the control of insects,
ectoparasites, and other pests shall be established and maintained.	(3)	Be
cleaned and maintained in a manner designed to ensure the best possible sanitary
conditions.  Excreta shall be removed from the shelter as often as necessary,
at least daily, to prevent contamination of the dog and to reduce disease
hazards and odors.  When a hosing or flushing method is used for cleaning, any
dog contained in the enclosure shall be protected during the cleaning process. 
Rugs, blankets, or other bedding material shall be kept clean and dry.	(4)	Be of
adequate size to allow the dog to stand up and turn about freely, stand easily,
sit and lie in a comfortable normal position.	(5)	Have a floor constructed so as
to protect the dog’s feet and legs from injury.	(6)	Allow a dog kept outdoors
to remain dry during rain.	(7)	Have sufficient clean bedding material or other
means of protection from the weather when the ambient temperature falls below
that temperature to which the dog is acclimated.	(8)	Provide sufficient shade to
allow a dog kept outdoors to protect itself from the direct rays of the sun,
when sunlight is likely to cause overheating or discomfort.  Starting on the
first day of June and ending on the last day of October, a shaded,
heat-resistant area must be provided during daylight hours.	(9)	Contain a
suitable means for the prompt elimination of excess liquid.	(10)	Be structurally
sound and maintained in good repair to protect the dog from injury.	(11)	Have
all open windows and doors covered by flaps starting in the month of November
and continuing until the end of May.  The door flap shall allow the dog easy
access in and out of the shelter, and at the same time allow the dog to retain
body heat.	(12)	Be constructed and maintained so that the dog contained therein
has convenient access to clean food and water.(Amended by Ord. No. 175,453, Eff.
10/26/03.)	H.	Water Requirements.  No person shall keep, use, or maintain any
guard dog on any premises unless the dog has access to clean and fresh water at
all times.  Clean potable water shall be available to the dog unless restricted
for veterinary care, and: 	(1)	If the water is kept in a container, this
container shall be of the type designed  to prevent tipping and spilling of the
water contained therein.  If necessary to accomplish this purpose, the
container shall be secured to a solid structure or secured in the ground. 
Watering containers shall be kept clean and shall be sanitized at least once
every two weeks; must be kept out of the sun and must be emptied and refilled
with fresh water at least once each calendar day; or 	(2)	If the water is
provided by an automatic or demand device, the water supply connected to the
device must function 24 hours a day.(Amended by Ord. No. 175,453, Eff.
10/26/03.)	I.	Feeding Requirements.  No person shall keep, use, or maintain any
guard dog on any premises unless the dog is provided sufficient food daily to
maintain proper body weight and good general health.  In addition, the
following requirements shall apply:	(1)	The dog shall be provided with food
which is free from contamination, is wholesome, palatable, and of sufficient
quantity and nutritive value to meet the normal daily requirements for the
condition and size of the animal.	(2) 	Food receptacles shall be accessible to
the dog and shall be located so as to minimize food’s contamination by excreta
and/or insects.  Feeding pans shall be durable and kept clean.  The food
receptacles shall be sanitized at least once every two weeks.  Disposable food
receptacles may be used but must be discarded after each feeding.  Self feeders
may be used for the feeding of dry food, and they shall be sanitized regularly
to prevent molding, deterioration or caking of food.  Spoiled or contaminated
food shall be disposed of in a sanitary manner.(Amended by Ord. No. 175,453,
Eff. 10/26/03.)	J.	Licensing.  No person shall own, keep, use, or maintain a
guard dog unless the person has obtained a guard dog license and tag from the
Department.  The fee for each guard dog license and tag shall be $150.00 per
year for an unaltered guard dog and $50.00 per year for an altered guard dog. 
Each license issued pursuant to this section shall expire one year from the date
of its issuance and on the same day of each year.  The license fee shall be
paid annually to the Department and shall be due and payable on or before the
expiration of the previous license.  The payment of the annual guard dog
license fee shall be in lieu of the dog license tax imposed by Section 53.15 and
the dog license fee imposed by Section 53.15.3 of this article.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 175,453, Eff. 10/26/03.)	K.	Electronic Animal Identification Device. 
No person shall own, maintain, keep, use, or maintain a guard dog unless the
person had an Electronic Animal Identification Device approved by the Department
surgically implanted in the dog.  (Added by Ord. No. 175,453, Eff. 10/26/03.)
