                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

BARKING DOG NOISE. (§ 53.63)

  BARKING DOG NOISE.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 162,538, 8/27/87.)	It shall be unlawful for any person to
permit any dog or dogs under his or her charge, care, custody or control to emit
any excessive noise after the Department has issued a written notice advising
the owner or custodian of the alleged noise and the procedures as set forth
below have been followed.  For purposes of this section, the term “excessive
noise” shall mean noise which is unreasonably annoying, disturbing, offensive,
or which unreasonably interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life or
property of one or more persons occupying property in the community or
neighborhood, within reasonable proximity to the property where the dog or dogs
are kept.  The noise must be continuously audible for ten (10) minutes or
intermittently audible for thirty (30) minutes within a three (3) hour period. 
However, the provisions of this section shall not apply to any commercial animal
establishment permitted by zoning law where located.  The Department is
responsible for enforcement of the provisions of this Section as follows: 
(Amended by Ord. No. 181,930, Eff. 12/11/11.)	(a)	First Complaint.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 181,930, Eff. 12/11/11.)	1.	Upon receiving a written complaint
involving a whining, barking, howling, or similar dog noise, the Department
shall issue a written notice to the owner or person having charge, care, or
custody (hereinafter in this Section referred to as the owner) of the dog or
dogs advising that person of the noise complaint and requesting immediate
abatement of any excessive noise.	2.	Complaints to the Department must be
submitted in writing, and shall include the name, address and telephone number
of the complainant(s) as well as the address of the dog owner and a description
of the noise.	(b)	Second Complaint.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,930, Eff.
12/11/11.)	1.	If, within 15 days from the issuance of the written notice
pursuant to (a) above, a second complaint is received from the complainant along
with a written complaint from an additional complainant residing in a separate
residence within reasonable proximity to the dog(s), the Department shall, by
written notice, require the complainant or complainants and the owner of the dog
or dogs to appear at a meeting before a Department representative to discuss
possible ways and means to resolve the problem.  The Department may proceed
with a meeting based on a second complaint from only one complainant if the
Department determines that the noise affects that complainant.  If the problem
remains unresolved, the matter shall be set for hearing as provided by Section
53.18.5.	2.	If the owner fails to appear before the Department representative,
and there is evidence that the dog or dogs have emitted excessive noise, the
problem shall be deemed unresolved, and the matter set for hearing as provided
by Section 53.18.5.	(c)	New License Prohibited.  (Amended by Ord. No. 165,507,
Eff. 3/25/90.)  Any person whose dog license has been revoked pursuant to this
section shall not have the privilege to own, possess, control or be in charge of
any dog for a period of one (1) year from the date the decision becomes final
and the Department shall not issue, reissue or renew any license except as
provided by Section 53.18.5(r).	(d)	Notice Requirements.  Notice required
pursuant to this section shall be given in the manner provided by Section
53.18.5(g)	(e)	Exemption.  (Added by Ord. No. 172,735, Eff. 9/9/99.)  This
section shall not apply to any person using guard and/or sentry dogs on lots
zoned CCS, M1, M2, MR1, and MR2, as long as that person, at the time when the
complaint of excessive noise is lodged with the Department, is in full
compliance with the requirements of Sections 53.64 and 53.66 of this Code.
