                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

CARE AND MAINTENANCE OF DOGS. (§ 53.70)

  CARE AND MAINTENANCE OF DOGS.
	(Added by Ord. No. 176,915, Eff. 9/26/05.)	A.	Shelter requirements.  No person
shall keep, use or maintain a dog outdoors on any premises unless the dog is
either provided with full access to an enclosed building, or if not provided
with such access, is provided with access to a dog house or similar shelter at
all times. Said dog house or shelter shall: 	(1)	Have a weatherproof top,
bottom and sides, and an opening on no more than one side that allows a dog to
remain dry and provides adequate shade during daylight hours to allow a dog to
protect itself in order to prevent overheating or discomfort to the
dog.	(2)	Have a floor that is level and dry.	(3)	Be composed of material that
protects the dog from injury, and is free from cracks, depressions and rough
areas where insects, parasites and other pests might be established and
maintained.	(4)	Be of adequate size to allow the dog to stand erect with the
dog’s head up, to turn around easily, and to sit and lie down in a comfortable
and normal position.	(5)	Have sufficient clean bedding material or other means
of protection from weather when the weather is colder than what a dog of that
breed and condition will comfortably tolerate and that will allow the dog to
retain body heat.  Bedding material shall be kept clean and dry.	(6)	Contain a
suitable means for the prompt elimination of excess liquid.	(7)	Be structurally
sound and maintained in good repair to protect the dog from injury.	(8)	Be
constructed and maintained so that the dog has convenient access to clean food
and water.	(9)	Allow the dog easy access in and out.	(10)	Be cleaned and
maintained in a manner designed to insure sanitary conditions.  Excrement shall
be removed from the dog house or shelter and from the premises, including yard
and dog run, as frequently as necessary to prevent contamination and reduce
health hazards and odors.  Excrement shall be properly disposed of in trash
containers and shall not be washed into the gutter or storm drain.  When a
hosing or flushing method is used to clean the dog house or shelter, dogs should
be removed when reasonably possible.	B.	Water requirements.  No person shall
keep, use or maintain any dog on any premises unless the dog has access to
clean, fresh water at all times. Clean potable water shall be available to the
dog unless restricted for veterinary care.	(1)	If the water is in a container,
this container shall be designed, secured, placed and maintained in a manner
that prevents tipping and spilling of the water.  Water containers shall be
kept clean and sanitary, shall be kept out of the sun and shall be emptied and
refilled regularly with fresh water; or	(2)	If the water is provided by an
automatic or demand device, the water supply connected to the device must
function twenty four (24) hours per day.	C.	Feeding requirements.  No person
shall keep, use or maintain any dog on any premises unless the dog is provided
sufficient food daily to maintain proper body weight and good general health. 
The food shall be:	(1)	Free from contamination, shall be wholesome and palatable
and of sufficient quantity, quality and nutritive value to meet the normal daily
requirements for the age, size and breed of dog.	(2)	Contained in receptacles
that is easily accessible to the dog and located in a manner and place that
minimize contamination, including but not limited to contamination by excrement
or insects.  Feeding pans and food receptacles shall be durable and kept clean
and shall be maintained in sanitary condition.  Self-feeders shall be sanitized
regularly to prevent molding, deterioration or caking of food, and to prevent
any interruption of the flow of food that would make it difficult for the dog to
access the food.  Spoiled or contaminated food shall be disposed in a sanitary
manner.	(3)	Self-feeders and food receptacles shall not be left unattended
outdoors for periods of time significantly longer than necessary for feeding
purposes in order to prevent attracting vermin or animals in the wild, including
predators.	D.	Tethering.  It shall be unlawful for any person to tether,
fasten, chain, tie, restrain or cause a dog to be fastened, chained, tied or
restrained to houses, trees, fences, garages or other stationary or highly
immobile objects by means of a rope, chain, strap or other physical restraint
for the purpose of confinement, except in circumstances where all of the
following requirements are met:	(1)	The tethering shall not be for more time
than is necessary for the dog owner or custodian to complete a temporary task
that requires the dog to be physically restrained for a reasonable
period.	(2)	The dog must be tethered by a non-choke type collar or a body
harness to a tether that is at least three (3) times the body length of the dog,
measured from the dog’s nose to the back of the hindquarters and which tether
is free from entanglement.	(3)	The dog must have access to food, water and
shelter as described above.	(4)	The dog shall be monitored periodically.	This
section shall not affect the use of appropriate electronic means of
confinement.	E.	Caging.  No person shall keep, use or maintain a dog in an
outdoor pen, run, cage or other enclosure on any premises unless said pen, run,
cage or enclosure is of adequate size to allow the dog to move around freely
and, in addition,	(1)	its length is at least five times the length of the dog
and its width is at least three times the length of the dog, and its height
allows the dog to stand erect with the dog’s head up, and	(2)	contains a dog
shelter as described in Section 53.70 A. above, or	(3)	provides the animal
access to the inside of a building.	The pen, run, cage or other enclosure shall
be cleaned and maintained in a manner designed to insure sanitary conditions,
and free of any debris which would be injurious to the dog.	F.	Exceptions. This
prohibition shall not apply to any entities exempt under the provisions of
Section 53.15.2 (e)(2), to wit:	(1)	Government agencies; non-profit animal
rescue organizations exempt from taxation under Internal Revenue Code section
501(c)(3); or humane societies or societies for the prevention of cruelty to
animals if such societies are incorporated under the provisions of California
Corporations Code Section 10400 and the Nonprofit Public Benefit Corporation Law
in Part 2 of the California Corporations Code, beginning at Section
5110;	(2)	Permitted dog or cat shows; or	(3)	Permitted pet stores which sell or
otherwise transfer dogs or cats, whether for compensation or otherwise, within
the store.	G.	Penalties for noncompliance.  A violation of this Section may be
punishable as either an infraction or a misdemeanor at the sole discretion of
the Los Angeles City Attorney’s Office.	The maximum penalty for a conviction
of this Section as an infraction is a fine of $250.00. The maximum penalty for a
conviction of this Section as a misdemeanor is a fine of $1,000.00, imprisonment
in the County Jail for a period not more than six months, or by both a fine and
imprisonment.
