                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ROOSTERS – LIMIT. (§ 53.71)

  ROOSTERS – LIMIT.
	(Added by Ord. No. 180,889, Eff. 10/31/09.)	No person or persons shall own,
possess, maintain or have custody of more than one rooster on any lot, building,
structure, property or premises within the City of Los Angeles, subject to the
following exceptions:	(a)	This section shall not prohibit any business,
educational facility or lawful animal exhibition from having or maintaining
roosters, provided that such business, educational facility or animal
exhibition:  (i) has appropriate and valid permits and licenses; (ii) operates
in appropriately zoned areas; and (iii) maintains roosters as an integral and
otherwise lawful part of such business or activity.	(b)	This section shall not
prohibit more than one rooster on a property for filming purposes, pursuant to a
properly issued City filming permit, for the limited purpose of being used in a
film, television or other media production.  A rooster or roosters creating a
nuisance shall be removed from the City at the completion of each workday or
sooner, once filming ceases for the day or night.	(c)	Persons owning more than
one pet rooster may seek a permit from the Department to keep up to three of the
roosters as pets for the remainder of the roosters’ lives; provided that the
roosters do not create a nuisance or health hazard, are microchipped or fitted
with a legband approved by the Department for permanent identification and are
maintained in accordance with other laws governing the possession of fowl in the
City.  No replacement roosters shall be allowed under this permit.  The
Department may charge an administrative fee not to exceed $50.00 for up to two
additional roosters as a one-time permit fee.  No application for a permit
shall be accepted under this exception after December 31, 2009.	(d)	A violation
of the provisions of this Section may be addressed by means of a notice to
correct, or by means of a criminal or administrative citation in the amount of
$50.00 for the first violation, $100.00 for the second violation and $250.00 for
the third violation.  A violation of this Section may also be prosecuted as a
misdemeanor.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,332, Eff. 11/8/10.)	(e)	Nothing in this
section shall be interpreted to limit or affect any zoning or land use
requirements or regulations or any distance requirements or affect any other
local, State or Federal law relating to roosters, fighting roosters, game cocks
or other fowl or poultry.
