                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

FINGERPRINTING OF FIREARMS PURCHASERS. (§ 55.15)

  FINGERPRINTING OF FIREARMS PURCHASERS.
	(Added by Ord. No. 173,876, Eff. 5/18/01.)	(a)	As used in this section, the
term “firearm” shall mean any pistol, revolver, shotgun, rifle, or other
firearm, as that term is defined in Section 103.314 of this Code.	(b)	As used in
this section, the term “dealer” shall mean any person who is engaged in the
retail sale of firearms and any retail firearms dealer, as that term is defined
in Section 103.314 of this Code.	(c)	No dealer shall sell or otherwise transfer
ownership of any firearm without obtaining the right thumb print of the
purchaser or transferee on the California Department of Justice Dealer Record of
Sale of Firearm worksheet signed by the purchaser or transferee.  The thumb
print shall be recorded at the lower right hand corner on the back side of the
worksheet at the time that the worksheet is signed by the purchaser or
transferee.	(d)	The thumb print record required by this section shall be
maintained on the premises of the dealer throughout the time period during which
the Dealer Record of Sale is required to be maintained by the dealer. Such
record shall be subject to inspection at any time during normal business hours
in accordance with the provisions of Section 103.14 of this Code.	(e)	No person
shall knowingly fail to obtain a required thumb print, or knowingly fail to
maintain the record of a thumb print required by this section.  No person shall
refuse to permit a law enforcement employee to examine any record prepared in
accordance with this section during any inspection conducted pursuant to this
section, or refuse to permit the use of any such record or information in such
record by a law enforcement agency.	(f)	The requirements of this section shall
not apply when the purchaser or transferee is any of the following:	(1)	Any
person described in Section 12302 or 12322 of the California Penal Code;	(2)	Any
off-duty peace officer who displays proper agency identification which
identifies him or her as an active peace officer;	(3)	Any person who has been
issued a permit to carry a concealed weapon under the authority of Section 12050
of the California Penal Code;	(4)	Any security guard licensed under the
authority of Section 12033 of the California Penal Code;	(5)	Any firearms dealer
who has been issued a Federal Firearms License, a Certificate of Eligibility by
the State of California, and a Seller of Firearms Permit by the City of Los
Angeles.	(g)	Any violation of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor.
