                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SALE OF LARGE CALIBER FIREARMS PROHIBITED. (§ 55.18)

  SALE OF LARGE CALIBER FIREARMS PROHIBITED.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 176,603, Eff. 6/5/05.)	(a)	As used in this section, the
term “large caliber firearm” shall mean any firearm, as defined in Section
103.314 of this Code, capable of firing a center-fire cartridge of .50 caliber
or larger either by designation or by actual measurement.  The term “large
caliber firearm” shall include any rifle or handgun.	(b)	As used in this
section, the term “rifle” shall mean any firearm that is designed or
redesigned, made or remade, and intended to be fired from the shoulder and is
designed to fire only a single projectile through a rifled bore for each single
pull of the trigger.  The term “rifle” shall not include any
shotgun.	(c)	As used in this section, the term “handgun” shall mean any
firearm with a barrel less than 16 inches in length.  The term “handgun”
shall include any pistol, revolver, or concealable firearm as such terms are
defined in the California Penal Code.	(d)	No person shall sell, give, transfer
ownership of, transfer, offer for sale, or display for sale any large caliber
firearm.	(e)	The provisions of this section shall not apply to any sale or
transfer of a firearm which is prohibited under state law, of any destructive
device as defined in Section 12301 of the California Penal Code, of any assault
weapon as defined in the California Penal Code, or of any .50 BMG rifle as
defined in the California Penal Code.  The provisions of this section shall not
apply to any offer for sale or display in any periodical, solicitation by mail,
or use of the internet by a seller or offeror located outside the City of Los
Angeles.	(f)	The provisions of Subsection (d) of this section shall not apply
where the purchaser or transferee is any of the following:	(1)	A law enforcement
agency;	(2)	An agency duly authorized to perform law enforcement duties;	(3)	A
state or local correctional facility;	(4)	A person described in Section 12302 or
12322 of the California Penal Code, when acting within the course and scope of
his or her law enforcement duties;	(5)	A federal law enforcement officer, when
acting in the course and scope of his or her law enforcement duties;	(6)	A
person who is properly identified as a full-time paid peace officer, as defined
in Section 830.1, 830.2, 830.4, or 830.5 of the California Penal Code, and who
is authorized to, and does, carry a firearm during the course of his or her
employment as a peace officer, and is acting within the course and scope of such
employment;	(7)	A firearms dealer who has been issued a Federal Firearms
License, a Certificate of Eligibility by the State of California, and a permit
by the City of Los Angeles to engage in the retail sale of firearms;	(8)	A
purchaser of a curio or collector firearm.  A firearm shall be deemed curio or
collector only if it falls within one of these categories:	(A)	It was
manufactured prior to 1899;	(B)	It is classified as a curio or relic pursuant to
27 Code of Federal Regulations section 178.11, and the purchaser maintains a
current federal firearms collector license; or	(C)	It is a muzzle-loading
firearm;	(9)	A federal, state, or local historical society, museum, or
institutional collection that is open to the public, provided that the large
caliber firearm is used for display purposes, is secured from unauthorized use,
and is unloaded;	(10)	A person acting pursuant to a valid entertainment firearms
permit issued by the State of California; or	(11)	A person who obtains title to
a large caliber firearm by bequest or intestate succession.	(g)	Any violation of
this section shall constitute a misdemeanor.
