                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SALE OF AMMUNITION FOR LARGE CALIBER FIREARMS PROHIBITED. (§ 55.19)

 [SALE OF AMMUNITION FOR LARGE CALIBER FIREARMS PROHIBITED.]
	(Added by Ord. No. 180,448, Eff. 2/5/09.)	(a)	Definitions.	1.	“Firearm
Ammunition” means any self-contained unit consisting of the case, primer,
propellant charge, and projectile for use in pistols, revolvers, rifles, shot
guns, or any other device designed to be used as a weapon from which is expelled
a projectile by the force of explosion or other form of combustion. “Firearm
Ammunition” shall not include blank ammunition used solely in the course of
motion picture, television, video, or theatrical productions.	2.	“Large
caliber firearm” means any firearm, as defined in Section 103.314 of this
Code, capable of firing a center-fire cartridge of .50 caliber or larger either
by designation or by actual measurement.  The term “large caliber firearm”
shall include any rifle or handgun.	(b)	No person shall sell, give, transfer
ownership of, transfer, offer for sale, or display for sale any firearm
ammunition for any large caliber firearm.	(c)	The provisions of this section
shall not apply to any sale or transfer of firearm ammunition which is
prohibited under state law, including but not limited to any destructive device
as defined in Section 12301 of the California Penal Code or any fixed ammunition
of a caliber greater than .60 caliber as defined in Section 12304 of the
California Penal Code.  The provisions of this section shall not apply to any
offer for sale or display in any periodical, solicitation by mail, or use of the
internet by a seller or offeror located outside the City of Los Angeles.	(d)	The
provisions of Subsection (b) of this section shall not apply where the purchaser
or transferee is any of the following:	(1)	A law enforcement agency;	(2)	An
agency duly authorized to perform law enforcement duties;	(3)	A state or local
correctional facility;	(4)	A person described in Section 12302 or 12322 of the
California Penal Code, when acting within the course and scope of his or her law
enforcement duties;	(5)	A federal law enforcement officer, when acting in the
course and scope of his or her law enforcement duties; and	(6)	A person who is
properly identified as a full-time paid peace officer, as defined in Section
830.1, 830.2, 830.4, or 830.5 of the California Penal Code, and who is
authorized to, and does, carry a firearm during the course of his or her
employment as a peace officer, and is acting within the course and scope of such
employment.	(e)	Penalty.  Any violation of this section shall constitute a
misdemeanor.	(f)	Severability.  If any provision of this ordinance is found to
be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction,
that invalidity shall not affect the remaining provisions, which can be
implemented without the invalid provisions, and to this end, the provisions of
this ordinance are declared to be severable.
