                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SALE OF ULTRACOMPACT FIREARMS PROHIBITED. (§ 55.16)

  SALE OF ULTRACOMPACT FIREARMS PROHIBITED.
	(Added by Ord. No. 173,875, Eff. 5/18/01.)	(a)	As used in this section, the
term “ultracompact firearm” shall mean any pistol, revolver, or other
firearm, which has an overall length of six and three quarter inches
(6.75&#038;″) or less or an overall height of four and one half inches
(4.5&#038;″) or less, as measured with the magazine detached.	(b)	As used in
this section, the term “dealer” shall mean any person who is engaged in the
retail sale of firearms and any retail firearms dealer, as that term is defined
in Section 103.314 of this code.	(c)	No dealer or other person shall sell, lend,
give, transfer ownership of, or otherwise transfer to any other person any
ultracompact firearm.	(d)	No dealer shall process, pursuant to Penal Code
Section 12072(d), any ultracompact firearm transaction between persons not
licensed as firearms dealers or not possessing Federal Firearms Licenses.	(e)	No
dealer or other person shall sell, lend, give, transfer ownership of, or
otherwise transfer to any other person any firearm accessory designed to enable
or facilitate the carrying of any ultracompact firearm, including but not
limited to shoulder holsters, ankle holsters, belt holsters, and other devices
designed for the purpose of aiding the concealment of an ultracompact firearm,
unless such accessory is designed so that it can be used with a firearm larger
than an ultracompact firearm.	(f)	The provisions of Subsections (c), (d), and
(e) of this section shall not apply when the purchaser or transferee is any of
the following:	(1)	Any law enforcement agency;	(2)	Any agency duly authorized to
perform law enforcement duties;	(3)	Any state or local correctional
facility;	(4)	Any private security company licensed to do business in the State
of California or employee thereof authorized to carry a firearm within the
course and scope of his or her employment with such company;	(5)	Any person
properly identified as a full-time paid peace officer, as defined in California
Penal Code Sections 830.1, 830.2, 830.4, or 830.5, and who is authorized to
carry and does carry a firearm within the course and scope of his or her
employment as a peace officer;	(6)	Any person properly identified as a retired
peace officer;	(7)	Any person described in Section 12302 or 12322 of the
California Penal Code;	(8)	Any person with a valid license to carry a concealed
weapon issued pursuant to California Penal Code section 12050;	(9)	The purchaser
of an antique firearm, as defined in Paragraph (16) of Subsection (a) of Section
921 of the United States Code;	(10)	The purchaser of a firearm in a
collector’s series, provided that such firearm falls within the definition of
a curio or relic contained in Section 178.11 of Title 27 of the Code of Federal
Regulations;	(11)	A motion picture, television, or video production company, or
an entertainment or theatrical company whose production involves the use of such
handgun, provided that the firearm is borrowed or rented for such purpose, that
the firearm is secured from unauthorized use during its use for such purpose,
and that the firearm is returned to its owner within a reasonable period of time
after it is no longer needed for such use;	(12)	Any person who is exempt from
the provisions of Subsection (d) of Section 12072 of the California Penal
Code;	(13)	Any person or entity conducting a transaction described in
Subdivision (k) of Section 12078 of the California Penal Code;	(14)	Any person
licensed as a collector pursuant to Chapter 44 (commencing with Section 921) of
Title 18 of the United States Code and regulations issued pursuant thereto, and
who has a current certificate of eligibility issued to him or her by the state
Department of Justice pursuant to Section 12071 of the California Penal
Code;	(15)	Any person or entity acquiring a firearm by bequest or by intestate
succession;	(16)	A person redeeming a firearm pledged to a pawnbroker, provided
that such person provides proof that he or she is the person who pledged the
firearm.	(g)	Every dealer shall maintain separate records as to any sales
exempted pursuant to Subsection (f) of this section, showing each sale of an
ultracompact firearm, including as to each sale the name of the purchaser, type
of handgun, date of sale, and documentation of any exemption pursuant to Penal
Code Section 12050 or any other exemption set forth in Subsection (f).  Such
records shall be maintained on the premises of the dealer for a period of not
less than two years and shall be subject to inspection at any time during normal
business hours in accordance with the provisions of Section 103.14 of this
code.	(h)	Any violation of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor.
