                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

REQUIREMENTS FOR AMMUNITION SALES. (§ 55.11)

  REQUIREMENTS FOR AMMUNITION SALES.
	(Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 180,447, Eff. 2/2/09, Oper.
6/18/09.)	(a)	“Firearm Ammunition” means any self-contained unit consisting
of the case, primer, propellant charge, and projectile for use in pistols,
revolvers, rifles, shot guns, or any other device designed to be used as a
weapon from which is expelled a projectile by the force of explosion or other
form of combustion. “Firearm Ammunition” shall not include blank ammunition
used solely in the course of motion picture, television, video, or theatrical
productions.	(b)	The term “vendor”, as used in this section, shall mean any
person who is engaged in the retail sale of firearm ammunition and retail
firearms dealers.	(c)	No vendor shall sell or otherwise transfer ownership of
any firearm ammunition to any person other than those listed in subsection (g)
without at the time of purchase recording the following information on a form to
be prescribed by the Board of Police Commissioners:	1.	the date of the
transaction,	2.	the name, address and date of birth of the transferee,	3.	the
transferee’s drivers license or other identification number and the state in
which it was issued,	4.	the brand, type and amount of ammunition
transferred,	5.	the transferee’s signature, and	6.	the name of the sales
person who processed the transaction.	The vendor shall also at the time of
purchase or transfer obtain the right thumb print of the purchaser or transferee
on the above-referenced form.	(d)	No vendor shall sell or otherwise transfer
ownership of any firearm ammunition without complying with all requirements of
subsection (c) in a face-to-face transaction.	(e)	The records required by this
section shall be maintained on the premises of the vendor for a period of not
less than two (2) years from the date of the recorded transfer.  Said records
shall be subject to inspection at any time during normal business hours in
accordance with the provisions of Section 103.14 of this Code.	(f)	No person
shall knowingly make a false entry in, or fail to make a required entry in, or
fail to obtain the required thumb print, or fail to maintain in the required
manner records prepared in accordance herewith.  No person shall refuse to
permit a police department employee to examine any record prepared in accordance
with this section during any inspection conducted pursuant to this section, or
refuse to permit the use of any record or information therefrom by the police
department.	(g)	The requirements of subsection (c) shall not apply when the
purchaser is any of the following:	1.	any person described in Section 12302 or
12322 of the Penal Code of the State of California.	2.	any off-duty peace
officer who displays proper agency identification which identifies him or her as
an active peace officer.	3.	any person who has been issued a permit to carry a
concealed weapon under the authority of Section 12050 of the Penal Code of the
State of California	4.	any security guard licensed  under the authority of 
Section 12033 of the Penal Code of the State of California.	5.	any firearms
dealer who has been issued a Federal Firearms License, a Certificate of
Eligibility by the State of California and a Seller of Firearms Police Permit by
the City of Los Angeles.	6.	any firearm ammunition vendor who has been issued a
Seller of Ammunition Police Permit by the City of Los Angeles.	(h)	Violation of
this section shall constitute a misdemeanor.
