                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SALE OR PURCHASE OF MORE THAN ONE HANDGUN WITHIN A THIRTY DAY PERIOD PROHIBITED.
(§ 55.14)

  SALE OR PURCHASE OF MORE THAN ONE HANDGUN WITHIN A THIRTY DAY PERIOD
PROHIBITED.
	(Added by Ord. No. 172,430, Eff. 3/4/99, Oper. 6/3/99.)	(a)	The term
“dealer” shall mean a retail firearms dealer licensed by the City of Los
Angeles.	(b)	No person shall make application to a dealer, as provided in
Section 12072 of the California Penal Code, to purchase a  pistol, revolver or
other firearm capable of being concealed upon the person, herein referred to as
“handgun”, within thirty (30) days of making a prior application for the
purchase of a handgun within the State of California.  In computing the thirty
(30) day period, the date the application is made shall be counted as the first
day.	(c)	No dealer shall transfer the title of any handgun to any person whom
the dealer knows has made application to purchase more than one handgun within
the State of California within a thirty (30) day period prior thereto, nor shall
any dealer process a handgun transaction between unlicensed parties pursuant to
California Penal Code Section 12072 if the dealer knows that the one receiving
the handgun has made application to purchase more than one handgun within the
State of California within a thirty (30) day period prior thereto.	(d)	No dealer
shall transfer the title of any handgun to any person or process a handgun
transaction between unlicensed parties pursuant to California Penal Code Section
12072 if the dealer prior to transfer has received notice from the California
Department of Justice, herein referred to as the “DOJ,” that DOJ has
received an application for that person to purchase a handgun within the State
of California within a thirty (30) day period prior thereto.  For the purposes
of this subsection, the date of application of purchase shall be the date the
DOJ receives the Dealer Record of Sale or receives the transmission of required
information by any medium of communication authorized under state law.	(e)	For
the purposes of this section, the redemption of a handgun pledged to a
pawnbroker shall not be deemed the sale, purchase or transfer of title of that
handgun.  However, a dealer may not rely on this exemption unless the purchaser
provides proof that the transaction was the redemption of a handgun pawned to a
pawnbroker by the purchaser.	(f)	Each dealer shall maintain records of each sale
of a handgun to include the name of the purchaser, type of handgun, date of
sale, and any other information required by the Board of Police Commissioners. 
Such records shall be maintained on the premises of the dealer for a period of
not less than two (2) years and shall be subject to inspection at any time
during normal business hours.	(g)	Each dealer shall post a sign in a conspicuous
place with letters at least one inch high stating the obligations and
restrictions of purchasers and dealers under this ordinance, pursuant to
direction by the Board of Police Commissioners.	(h)	The dealer shall require the
purchaser, at the time of application for purchase, to indicate, on a form
prescribed by the Board of Police Commissioners, whether he or she has or has
not made an application for the purchase of a handgun within the last thirty
(30) days, and which if any of the exemptions set forth in Subsection (i) is
applicable to the purchaser. If any of the exemptions is checked, the
restrictions of this section shall not apply, provided all necessary information
is supplied to the dealer.  The form shall be signed by the purchaser under
penalty of perjury.  Such form shall be maintained on the premises of the
dealer for a period of not less than two (2) years from the date of signing and
shall be subject to inspection at any time during normal business hours.	(i)	The
provisions of this section shall not apply to the following:	1.	Any person who
is licensed to sell firearms pursuant to Article 4, commencing with Section
12070, of the Penal Code of the State of California.	2.	Any law enforcement
agency.	3.	Any agency duly authorized to perform law enforcement duties.	4.	Any
state or local correctional facility.	5.	Any private security company licensed
to do business in the State of California.	6.	Any person who is properly
identified as a full-time paid peace officer, as defined in Section 830.1,
830.2, 830.4, or 830.5 of the Penal Code of the State of California, and who is
authorized to, and does, carry a firearm during the course and scope of his or
her employment as a peace officer.	7.	Any antique firearm, as defined in
Paragraph (16) of Subsection (a) of Section 921 of Title 18 of the United States
Code.	8.	Any person or entity who purchases firearms in a collector’s series
or a bulk purchase from an estate sale.	9.	Any motion picture, television, or
video production company, or entertainment or theatrical company whose
production  involves the use of a handgun, and which secures such handgun from
unauthorized use.	10.	Any person who is exempt from the waiting period in
Subdivision (c) of Section 12072 of the Penal Code of the State of
California.	11.	Any person who is exempt from the provisions of Subdivision (d)
of Section 12072 of the Penal Code of the State of California.	12.	Any person or
entity conducting a transaction through a law enforcement agency pursuant to
Section 12084 of the Penal Code of the State of California.	13.	Any person or
entity conducting a transaction described in Subdivision (k) of Section 12078 of
the Penal Code of the State of California.	14.	Any person who is licensed as a
collector pursuant to Chapter 44, (commencing with Section 921) of Title 18 of
the United States Code and the regulations issued pursuant thereto, and who has
a current certificate of eligibility issued to him or her by the Department of
Justice pursuant to Section 12071 of the Penal Code of the State of
California.	15.	Any person or entity acquiring a handgun by bequest or intestate
succession.	16.	Any person or entity replacing a single handgun where the
handgun was lost or stolen, and the person reported that firearm lost or stolen
to the Los Angeles Police Department or appropriate law enforcement agency and
presents the dealer with evidence of such reporting.	17.	Any seller’s exchange
or replacement of a handgun for a handgun purchased from that seller within the
thirty (30) day period immediately preceding the date of exchange or
replacement.	(j)	Violation of Subsection (b) shall be punishable as an
infraction subject to a fine of $50.00 for the first violation of that
subsection, as an infraction subject to a fine of $100.00 for the second
violation of the subsection and as a misdemeanor for the third or subsequent
violations of that subsection.  Each handgun applied for shall be deemed a
separate violation.	(k)	If any provision of this section is for any reason held
to be invalid or unconstitutional by the decision of any court of competent
jurisdiction within the State of California, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the remaining provisions and the City declares that it would have
adopted the remaining provisions irrespective of the fact that a provision or
provisions are declared invalid or unconstitutional.
