                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

TRADE SECRETS. (§ 57.08.14)

  TRADE SECRETS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 172,043, Eff. 7/13/98.)	A.	Identification:	1.	If a
business believes that the disclosure of information requested in the
application for a Permit or HMRRP authorization involves a trade secret which
the business wishes to protect from public disclosure, the business shall
identify or list on an additional and separate page of the application for a
Permit or HMRRP authorization, conspicuously marked or labeled as containing
trade secret information, the hazardous substance or other information that it
claims should be protected as a trade secret. The trade secret information shall
not be set forth in any other part of the application.	2.	Within 60 days of
filing an application for a Permit or HMRRP authorization in which a business
has claimed a trade secret, the business shall file with the Department a
written substantiation of the trade secret claim. It shall also file with the
City a signed written agreement in a form acceptable to the City Attorney which
indemnifies the City for the City’s litigation expenses and costs, if any, and
for any awards of damages and attorneys’ fees arising out of litigation
resulting from a City refusal to disclose information claimed by the business to
be a trade secret in the event such nondisclosure is found by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be unwarranted.	B.	Nondisclosure:	Except as provided
in Subsections C, E, or G of this section, the Department shall not disclose any
information which a business indicates in its application for a Permit or HMRRP
authorization, claims to be or seeks to protect as, a trade
secret.	C.	Disclosure To Public Officers and Employee:	Trade secret information
obtained by the Department may be disclosed to an officer or employee of the
City of Los Angeles or other public entity provided that such disclosure is in
connection with the official duty of such officer or employee under any fire
suppression, health, safety or environmental law. Trade secret information may
be disclosed to City contractors and to their employees, if in the judgment of
the Chief such disclosure is necessary for the performance of a contract with
the City and to protect the health or safety of the employees of the
contractor.	D.	Acknowledgment of Receipt:	Recipients of trade secret information
pursuant to Subsection C of this section must file with the Department, at the
time of receipt of such information, a completed, dated, and signed written
acknowledgment of receipt of said trade secret information. The acknowledgment
shall state that the individual signing it is aware of the confidentiality of
the information received, the restrictions on its use and dissemination and the
penalties for unlawful dissemination as set forth in this section.	E.	Disclosure
for Medical Purposes:	Trade secret information may be disclosed to a paramedic
or medical doctor by the Department when necessary for the purposes of treating
a patient, so long as the paramedic or doctor is first advised that any
disclosure of the information which is not necessary for the treatment of the
patient would constitute a misdemeanor.	F.	Penalty for Unauthorized
Disclosure:	A person, in possession of trade secret information disclosed to the
Department pursuant to this division, who knowingly makes further disclosure
thereof to any person not entitled to receive such information, is guilty of a
misdemeanor.	G.	Disclosure Pursuant to Public Record Act:	The Department, upon
receipt of a written request under the Public Records Act from any person for
the disclosure of information which a business has notified the Department it
seeks to protect as a trade secret pursuant to Subsection A of this section,
shall notify the business within two working days by personal service or by
certified mail return receipt requested, that a request for disclosure of trade
secret information has been received by the Department. The Department shall
also inform the business that it should immediately file the written
substantiation of its claim of trade secret required by Subsection A of this
section, if it has not already done so, and any other relevant information it
may wish to file with the Department.	Upon receipt of a request for disclosure
of trade secret information, the Department shall forward a copy of the request,
together with any substantiation of the trade secret claim and the
Department’s proposed determination to the City Attorney for review and
comment.	Within 10 days after the receipt of a written request for disclosure of
trade secret information, the Department shall make a final determination
whether or not to comply with the request and shall immediately notify both the
person requesting the information and the business of such determination and
reasons therefor.	H.	National Defense Classification:	Information certified by
an appropriate official of the United States as classified for national defense
purposes shall be accorded whatever protection against disclosure as directed by
such official as specified by applicable federal law.
