                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

APPLICATION FOR PERMITS. (§ 57.04.05)

  APPLICATION FOR PERMITS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 172,043, Eff. 7/13/98.)	A.	Filing:	All applications for
Permits required by this division shall be filed with the Office of Finance and
shall be in writing on forms provided by the Office of Finance  (Amended by
Ord. No. 173,276, Eff. 6/25/00, Oper. 7/1/00.).  Such applications  shall be
accompanied by the Permit fees required by this article.	B.	Contents of
Application:	Applications for Permits required by this division shall, unless
otherwise required by the Department, contain the following information:	1.	The
name and address of the applicant;	a.	A description of the property by street
and number wherein or whereon the applicant proposes to engage in the 
business, operation, or to occupy the premises for which the Permit is required,
and if the same has  no street number, then such description as will enable it
to be easily located.	b.	A statement signed by the applicant or the
applicant’s  authorized representative signifying the applicant is in charge
of such business, operation, occupation, or premises, and agrees to comply with
all regulations, laws, or ordinances pertaining thereto;	2.	If the application
is for a Permit to store, process, or use hazardous materials, above ground of
the type and  in the amounts exceeding those set forth in Table 4-A of this
division or exceeding the Permit amounts for hazardous materials in L.A.F.D.
Standard No. 68,  it shall state thereon the maximum aggregate quantity of such
materials which the applicant intends to store, process, or use at any time and
the business shall comply with all inventory reporting and business plan
requirements in Division 8.	3.	If the application is for a Permit for assembly
occupancies, it shall be accompanied by three copies of a floor plan which
clearly indicates the maximum capacity for the proposed use.  The plans shall
be drawn to scale and show all seats, cross aisles, and exit doorways  in
accordance with the provisions of this article.
