                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

AUTHORITY TO GRANT VARIANCES AND WAIVERS. (§ 57.01.28)

  AUTHORITY TO GRANT VARIANCES AND WAIVERS.	A.	The Board shall have the power
to grant slight variances from the provisions of this article; provided that,
before authorizing such variances, the Board shall first find cause therefor in
fact in that strict enforcement of this article is impractical, or creates
unnecessary hardship, or is otherwise adjudged unwarranted in each instance.
Such variances must be in conformity with the spirit and purpose of this article
and must secure the public safety.	B.	The Board shall have the power to waive
any part or all of the provisions of this article which may apply to a refinery,
natural gasoline plant, or laboratory where such is found to be in an adequately
separated installation at which fire protection and emergency facilities
especially adapted to the needs are available and where the Board determines
that by reason of such isolation and protection, the public safety is assured
and no unreasonable hazard will result to persons or property.	C.	Each
application for a variance or waiver shall be filed at the office of the Bureau
of Fire Prevention and Public Safety and shall be accompanied by such maps,
drawings, letters, statements, and other supporting data as may be required to
justify the request in question.  Except when such an application is in
conjunction with an application for a Permit required by Subsection A of Section
57.05.20 of this article, it shall be accompanied by payment of a fee
established by the most current cost recovery schedule published as provided by
Section 57.04.12 of this article.  An application for two or more variances may
be filed upon a single application and only one fee shall be paid, provided that
all such variances are located at the same address and are for the same
person.  (Amended by Ord. No. 169,944, Eff. 8/20/94.)	D.	The Fire Marshal shall
cause an investigation to be made of every application for a variance or waiver.
Such investigation shall be made by authorized members of the Fire Department.
At the conclusion of the investigation, the Fire Marshal shall transmit the
application, together with his recommendation, to the Board of Fire
Commissioners.
