                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PERMITS – INVESTIGATION AND PROCEDURE FOR GRANTING – POWER TO DENY. (§
57.04.06)

  PERMITS – INVESTIGATION AND PROCEDURE FOR GRANTING – POWER TO
DENY.	A.	Investigation and Procedure for Granting:	1.	The Fire Marshal shall
investigate application for a Permit, and such investigation shall be made by
authorized members of the Department.	2.	The Fire Marshal may require such
additional information as may be necessary to carry out the investigation of the
application for a Permit.	3.	The Chief shall determine the allowable occupant
load permitted for an assembly or institutional occupancy based upon the aisle
and exit provisions of Division 33 of this article. The allowable occupant load
shall not exceed the maximum occupant load designated in the Certificate of
Occupancy issued by the Department of Building and Safety, or in the absence of
such certificate, the maximum occupant load approved by the Chief.	4.	If, after
investigation and consideration of any application, and any plans or
specifications required in connection therewith, the Chief shall determine that
the proposed business, operation, occupation or premises will not create any
undue hazard as a result of fire or panic, and the applicant will comply with
any requirements of this article and all other applicable laws, the Chief shall
approve the application.	5.	The Chief’s approval of the application may be
made subject to terms and conditions necessary for the safeguarding of life and
property from the hazards of fire, explosion or panic.	6.	On approval of the
application by the Chief and the payment of the required fee the Office of
Finance (Amended by Ord. No. 173,276, Eff. 6/25/00, Oper. 7/1/00.) shall issue
the Permit.	B.	Power to Deny: The Chief, in his discretion, is hereby empowered
to deny or withhold approval of a Permit for which an application has been made
if the building, premises, equipment, apparatus, vehicle reasonable facilities
for the establishing, maintaining, conducting operating the business, operation,
occupation, or premises for which the Permit is requested is or are insufficient
or are unfit or incapable of being used, maintained, established, or operated to
comply with this article or other applicable laws and the Rules and Regulations
of the Department.
