                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEFINITIONS. (§ 57.08.02)

  DEFINITIONS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 172,043, Eff. 7/13/98.)	The following words or group of
words, when used in this division, shall be defined as follows:	Act – Chapter
6.95, Article 1, commencing with Sections 25500 through 25520, of Division 20 of
the California Health and Safety Code, setting forth  the State provisions
enacting Business Plans.	Authorization – An acknowledgment of compliance for
an individual Unified Program element.	Business – Any employer, self-employed
individual, trust, firm, joint stock company, corporation, partnership,
association, institution or public agency. The term business shall include both
for profit and nonprofit enterprises.	Business Plan – A separate Hazardous
Materials Release Response Plan (HMRRP) and Inventory for each facility, site,
or branch of a business which meets the requirements of Section 25504 of the
Act.	Chemical Name – The scientific designation of a substance in accordance
with the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry or in accordance with
the system developed by the Chemical Abstracts Service.	Certification Statement
– A statement signed by the business owner, operator, or officially designated
representative that attests to all of the following:	(1)	The information
contained in the annual inventory form most recently submitted to the
administering agency is complete, accurate, and up to date.	(2)	There has been
no change in the quantity of any hazardous material as reported in the most
recently submitted annual inventory form.	(3)	No hazardous materials subject to
the inventory requirements of this chapter are being handled that are not listed
on the most recently submitted annual inventory form.	(4)	The most recently
submitted annual inventory form contains the information required by Section
11022 of Title 42 of the United States Code.	Common Name – The designation or
identification commonly used to identify a substance other than by its chemical
name including, but not limited to, a code name, code number, trade name, or
brand name.	Extremely Hazardous Substance (EHS) – Any chemical designated an
extremely hazardous substance as listed in Appendix A of Part 355 of Subchapter
J of Chapter I of Title 40 of the Code of Federal Regulations.	Handle –
Includes generate, sell, possess, process, store, discharge, dispose or
use.	Handler – Includes any business which handles a hazardous
material.	Hazardous Material or Hazardous Substance – Includes any one or more
of the following:	1.	Any hazardous material, as defined in Section 57.02.02 of
this article, including, but not limited to, any combustible liquid, any
irritant, any strong sensitizer which generates pressure through exposure to
heat, decomposition or other means, any radioactive substance, or any substance
which is air-reactive, corrosive, explosive, flammable, oxidizing, toxic,
unstable or  water-reactive.	2.	Any substance identified on the list of
hazardous substances prepared by the Director of the Department of Industrial
Relations pursuant to Section 6382 of the Labor Code, as set forth in Section
339 of Title 8 of the California Administrative Code, including, but not limited
to carcinogens, toxic or hazardous water pollutants, hazardous air pollutants,
airborne chemical contaminants, restricted pesticides or toxic materials.	3.	Any
substance identified on the list of hazardous or extremely hazardous wastes
prepared by the Director of the Department of Health Services pursuant to
Section 25140 of the Health and Safety Code, as set forth in Section 66680 of
Title 22 of the California Administrative Code, including, but not limited to,
wastes which could cause death, contribute to an increase in incapacitating or
irreversible illness or pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human
health or environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed or
otherwise managed.	4.	Any substance which has been determined to be hazardous,
based upon an appraisal or assessment by the business using the substance
conducted pursuant to the requirements of the United States Environmental
Protection Agency or the California Department of Health Services.	5.	Any
substance which is known by the business handling it to be likely to pose a
significant present or potential hazard to public health, safety or the
environment.	6.	Any substance determined by the Chief to pose a significant
present or potential hazard to public health, safety or the environment.	Owner
of Business – includes any officer, director, supervisor, or other person
having discretionary, as distinguished from ministerial, responsibility for a
business at the address set forth in the Permit.	On-site Manager – The person
or persons who directs or controls a business at a particular location or
site.	Property Owner – Includes any person, association, partnership, firm,
corporation, or public entity appearing as the holder of title on any property
as shown on the records of the City Engineer or on the last property assessment
roll of the County of Los Angeles.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,595, Eff.
4/10/11.)	Release – Includes any spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring,
emitting, emptying, discharging, injecting, escaping, leaching, dumping, or
disposing into the environment, unless permitted or authorized by a regulatory
agency.	SIC Code – The identification number assigned by the Standard
Industrial Classification Code to specific types of businesses.	Threatened
Release – Includes, but is not limited to, any condition creating a
substantial probability of harm, when the probability and potential extent of
harm make it reasonably necessary to take immediate action to prevent, reduce,
or mitigate damages to persons, property, or to the environment.	Trade Secret
– Includes, but is not limited to, any formula, plan, pattern, process, tool,
mechanism, compound, procedure, production data, or compilation of information
which is not patented, which is known only to certain individuals within a
commercial concern who are using it to fabricate, produce, or compound an
article of trade or a service having commercial value, and which gives its user
an opportunity to obtain a business advantage over competitors who do not know
or use it.
