                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

GENERAL APPROVALS. (§ 57.05.10)

  GENERAL APPROVALS.	A.	Required – No person shall construct, sell, offer for
sale, or advertise for use in the City or install, operate, maintain, or use any
appliance, device, equipment, system, or material listed in this section unless
a General Approval for the type, design, construction, formulation, and/or
method of application has been granted by the Chief.	1.	Fire hydrant.	2.	Candle
device for a place of assemblage other than the sanctuary of a
church.	3.	Roofing kettle over 15 gallons capacity.	4.	Automatic or self-closing
shutoff valves or internal valves hazardous materials.	5.	Automatic or
self-closing dispensing nozzles for hazardous materials.	6.	Vaporizers or mixers
for liquefied gases.	7.	Portable tank or portable shipping tank.	8.	Cargo tank
of a tank vehicle.	9.	Internal valve or dome cover for cargo tank if approved
separately from tank vehicle.	10.	Hydrant cart for aircraft refueling.	11.	Paint
coating, or other surface finish, which purports to reduce or eliminate
combustible characteristics of furnishings or structures unless regulated by
Title 19 of the California Administrative Code or by Chapter 9 of the L.A.M.C.
(Building Code).	B.	Exemptions – The Chief may exempt from the requirements
Subsection A of this section any appliance, device, equipment, material or
system which is approved, listed, or labeled by an approved testing laboratory;
provided that such appliance, device, equipment, material or system is applied,
installed, operated, used, and maintained in conformance with the requirements
of this article. Exemptions hereby granted do not include exemption from the fee
requirements as set for in Section 57.05.15 of this article.	C.	Optional – The
Department may grant a General Approval for the type, design, and construction
of any appliance, device, equipment, or system which is listed in this
subsection.  (Sentence Amended by Ord. No. 170,954, Eff. 4/16/96.)   This does
not waive the requirements for a Permit for each individual
installation.	1.	Atmospheric tank.	2.	Low pressure tank.	3.	Special
vessel.	4.	Gas holder.	5.	Spray booth or spray tunnel with any dimension greater
than three feet.	6.	Dip tank, more than 150 gallons capacity or more than five
square feet of surface area.	7.	Flow coat machine.	8.	Drying oven.	9.	Industrial
oven or furnace not otherwise specified.	10.	Industrial processing equipment not
otherwise specified.  (Amended by Ord. No. 170,954, Eff.
4/16/96.)	11.	Automatic fire extinguishing system except automatic sprinkle
system.	D.	Record – A record of and exceptions which may be granted in
accordance with the provisions of this section shall be maintained by the Chief.
Such record shall be available for public inspection at the office of the Bureau
of Fire Prevention and Public Safety.
