                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

CERTIFICATES OF FITNESS – INFORMATION REQUIRED. (§ 57.06.04)

  CERTIFICATES OF FITNESS – INFORMATION REQUIRED.	A.	Applicants for a
Certificate of Fitness to recharge or service portable fire extinguishers shall
furnish satisfactory proof to the Chief that they are competent to install,
service, and test portable fire extinguishers in accordance with L.A.F.D.
Standard No. 1.	B.	Applicants for a Certificate of Fitness to conduct blasting
operations shall furnish such information as may be required by the Chief to
establish competency with and adequate knowledge of explosive materials,
equipment, techniques, and safety precautions necessary to conduct safe blasting
operations.	C.	Applicants for a Certificate of Fitness to conduct any test as
specified in Regulation No. 4 shall furnish such information as may be required
by the Chief to establish competency with and knowledge of the materials,
formulas, equipment, techniques, standards, ordinances, and recognized good
practices pertaining to the Certificate of Fitness for which they are
applying.	D.	Applicants for a Certificate of Fitness to perform as a fire safety
officer shall furnish such information as may be required by the Chief to
establish familiarity with, and possession of a thorough knowledge of applicable
fire prevention procedures, the Los Angeles Fire Code, State Fire Marshal’s
Rules and Regulations as contained in Title 19 of the California Administrative
Code, and other applicable regulations dealing with fire, explosion, and life
safety.	E.	Applicants for a Certificate of Fitness to perform as a health care
facility instructor shall furnish such information as may be required by the
Chief to establish the possession of a thorough knowledge of the Health Care
Facility requirements contained in the Los Angeles Fire Code, the California
Administrative Code, and the California Health and Safety Code, and the
necessary qualifications to instruct others in Health Care Facility
requirements.	F.	Applicants for a Certificate of Fitness to perform as a
high-rise life/safety service shall furnish such information as may be required
by the Chief to establish qualification to instruct and possession of a thorough
knowledge of the Los Angeles Fire Code and other applicable regulations with
regard to developing and/or conducting training in emergency planning,
evacuation procedures, and the use of first-aid fire equipment in high-rise
buildings in the City of Los Angeles.
