                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

GENERAL DEFINITIONS. (§ 57.02.02)

  GENERAL DEFINITIONS.	The following words and phrases, whenever used in this
article, shall be construed as defined in this section unless the context within
individual divisions of this article clearly indicates otherwise.	Aerosol
(Flammable) – A material which is dispensed from its container as a mist,
spray, or foam by propellant under pressure, and which is required to be labeled
“Flammable” under the U.S. Federal Hazardous Substances Act.	Aircraft – A
device that is used or intended to be used for flight in the air.	Aircraft
Factory – Any building or structure used partly or entirely for the
manufacturing or assembling of aircraft.	Aircraft Fueling Station – That
portion of a premises where flammable or combustible liquids are dispensed into
the fuel tanks of aircraft.	Aircraft Fueling System – An arrangement of
aviation fuel storage tanks, pumps, piping, and associated equipment installed
at an airport and designed to service aircraft at fixed positions.	Aircraft
Loading Walkway – An aboveground device which is essentially mobile in nature
and which folds, telescopes or pivots from a fixed point at the finger of the
airport terminal building and is used to provide a means of ingress and/or
egress between a point in a finger of an airport terminal building and an
aircraft.	Aircraft Fuel Servicing Tank Vehicle – Any tank vehicle used for the
transferring of flammable or combustible liquids to or from fuel tanks or
compartments of aircraft.	Airport – An area of land or water, including all
associated land and facilities, that is used or intended to be used for the
landing and takeoff of aircraft.	Air-Reactive Material – Any material which
will ignite spontaneously in contact with air.	Aisle – A passageway of at
least three feet in width which provides access to required exits, fire
protection equipment, or separation for a storage area.	Alter or Alteration –
Any change, addition, or modification of any approved appliance, device, system,
equipment, process, occupancy, or building. “Alter” shall not be deemed to
include replacement of existing approved parts.	Alternate Floor Warden – A
responsible person, holding a valid Floor Warden Certificate, designated on each
floor of every high-rise building, prepared to assume the Floor Warden’s
duties when necessary.  (Added by Ord. No. 180,648, Eff. 6/1/09.)	Ambulatory
Person – Any person other than a nonambulatory person as defined
herein.	Apartment House – Any building or portion thereof which contains three
or more dwelling units or space thereof, regardless of form or
ownership.	Approved – Approved by the Chief	Approved Film Container – A film
container conforming to D.O.T. regulations or otherwise approved by the
Department.	Approved Testing Agency – An established and recognized agency or
laboratory regularly conducting tests or furnishing inspection services when
such agency has been approved by the Department. Agencies shall include, but not
be limited to Underwriter’s Laboratories, Factory Mutual Laboratories,
National Bureau of Standards, and the American Gas Association
Laboratory.	Artificial Tree – Manufactured trees which are constructed of
metallic, noncombustible, or fire-resistive material.  (Added by Ord. No.
167,326, Eff. 11/16/91.)	Assembly Occupancy (Place of Assemblage) – A
building, portion of a building, or premises used or intended to be used for the
following:	1.	The gathering together of 50 or more persons for amusement,
entertainment, education, instruction, deliberation, worship, drinking or
dining, awaiting transportation, or activities of a similar nature.	2.	The
showing of motion pictures when an admission fee is charged and when such
building or premises is open to the public and has a capacity of 10 or more
persons, or	3.	Any tent or membrane structure with a capacity of 10 or more
persons.	Assistant Fire Safety Director – A responsible person, who is an
employee of the building owner or manager or a resident designated by the
building owner, holding a valid Fire Safety Director Certificate, prepared to
assume the Fire Safety Director’s duties when necessary.  (Added by Ord. No.
180,648, Eff. 6/1/09.)	Atmospheric Tank – Any tank designed to operate at or
above atmospheric pressure, but not more than 0.5 psig.	Auto Fueling Station –
Any lot or parcel of land or portion thereof used partly or entirely for
dispensing flammable liquids, combustible liquids, liquefied flammable gas or
flammable gas from an approved dispensing apparatus into the fuel tanks of motor
vehicles or approved portable containers.	Automatic Fire Alarm System – A
device or system providing an emergency function without human intervention and
activated by a predetermined temperature rise, rate of rise of temperature, or
increase in the level of combustion products.	Automatic Fire Extinguishing
System – An approved system of devices and equipment which automatically
detects a fire and discharges an approved fire extinguishing agent on or in the
area of a fire.	Automatic Sprinkler System – An automatic fire extinguishing
system which automatically detects a fire and discharges water on or in the area
of a fire.	Auxiliary Fuel Tank – A tank used for fuel for a combustion engine,
other than the one supplied by the manufacturer of such engine.	Baffle – A
transverse partition in a cargo tank which is not liquid tight.	Balcony,
Exterior Exit – A landing or porch projecting from the wall of a building
which serves as an exit. The long side of an exterior exit balcony shall be at
least 50 percent open.	Barbecue Device – Any device using charcoal or other
fuels in the open for the purpose of heating, cooking or pleasure.	Barbed Wire
– Twisted wires armed with barbs or sharp points.	Barge – Any vessel used
for storing, handling, or transporting hazardous materials within the limits of
the Harbor of the City.	Barrel – A volume of 42 U.S. gallons.	Barrier – Any
rope or other barricade placed across a street, sidewalk, or other
place.	Basement – Any portion of a floor level of a building or structure
which is below grade.	Batch Process Oven – Any drying oven into which the work
charge is introduced all at one time so that the vaporization of flammable
volatiles within the oven is not at a constant rate.	Blasting – The use of
explosives for the purpose of removing or demolishing buildings or structures,
or portions thereof, rock or earth dislocations, object fragmentation, tree or
stump removal or other authorized uses but excepting tunneling operations where
the face of the tunnel is 25 feet or more from the tunnel mouth, and mining
operations where the foot of the shaft is 25 feet or more below ground
level.	Blasting Agent – Any material or mixture consisting of a fuel and
oxidizer, intended for blasting, not otherwise classified as an explosive, in
which none of the ingredients are classified as an explosive, provided that the
finished product, as mixed and packaged for use or shipment, cannot be detonated
by means of a No. 8 blasting cap when unconfined.	Blowout Preventor – A device
or its appurtenances designed to safeguard against the sudden or violent escape
of any material from an oil well when high pressure gas is encountered in
drilling operations.	Board – The Board of Fire Commissioners of the City of
Los Angeles.	Boarding Home  (Deleted by Ord. No. 169,944, Eff.
8/20/94.)	Boiling Point – The temperature at which a liquid is rapidly
converted to a vapor when at a pressure of 14.7 psia.	Building Control Station
– A room or area designated as the principal point of annunciation for the
fire protective signaling system, fire protection equipment, and systems
controls approved by the Department.	Building Department – The Department of
Building and Safety of the City of Los Angeles.	Building Inventory Form – A
form, provided by the Fire Department and completed by the Fire Safety Director,
that contains information about a building’s features, contents, systems, or
any other pertinent facts that could be used by emergency responders in
mitigating an emergency incident in the building.  (Added by Ord. No. 180,648,
Eff. 6/1/09.)	Bulk Distributing Station – Any distributing station for
hazardous materials with a loading rack which is not an integral part of a
refined natural gasoline plant, marine oil terminal, or crude petroleum
producing or pipeline operation.	Burning – Lighting, igniting, kindling, or
setting fire to combustible materials, adding fuel to a fire, or permitting
combustible material to burn.	Capacity – The maximum volume of any tank,
vessel, container, receptacle or cylinder in U.S. gallons or pounds.	Cargo Tank
– Any atmospheric tank, low pressure tank, pressure vessel or special vessel
designed or used for the transportation of liquid or gaseous hazardous
materials.	Cellulose Nitrate Film – Motion picture, X-ray, and sound recording
film coated on a base consisting essentially of cellulose nitrate. The terms
“Cellulose Nitrate Film,” “Nitrate Film,” or “Nitro-Cellulose Film”
shall be synonymous. This film may be in the form of unexposed film positives,
negatives, leaders, scrap or used film.	Central Station Signaling System – A
system consisting of electrically operated circuits and equipment, which
transmits alarms from buildings and structures equipped with a fire protection
system to a central station which is controlled and operated by a
Department-approved person or firm whose business is the furnishing and
maintaining of such a system and where qualified personnel are in attendance at
all times to notify the Fire Department of any alarm received.	Certificate of
Fitness – A written document issued by authority of the Chief to any person
for the purpose of granting permission to such person to conduct or engage in
any operation or act for which approval of the Department is required by
Division 6 of this article.	Chief – The Chief Engineer of the Fire Department
or his or her authorized representative.	Child or Children – A person or
persons under the age of 18 years and not classified as an infant.	Christmas
Tree Area – Any premises where Christmas trees are sold, offered for sale,
displayed for sale, or stored pending sale or disposal of such trees.	Church –
Any building or premises used as a place of assemblage for public worship or
meditation.	Closed Container – A container closed by means of a lid or other
device so that neither liquid nor vapor will escape from it at ambient
temperatures.	Combustible Liquid – A liquid having a flash point at or above
100° F. and classified as follows:	Class II liquids with a flash point at or
above 100° F. and below 140° F.	Class IIIA liquids with a flash point at or
above 140° F. and below  200° F.	Class IIIB liquids with a flash point at or
above 200° F. but not above 1500° F.	Combustible Material – Any material
which will ignite and continue to burn when exposed for a period of five minutes
or less to a temperature of 1500° F.	Combustible Metal – A metal, including
but not limited to magnesium, titanium, sodium, potassium, calcium, lithium,
hafnium, zirconium, zinc, thorium, uranium, plutonium or other similar metals,
which ignite easily when in the form of fine particles or molten
metal.	Community Care Facility – Any State-licensed facility as defined in
Health and Safety Code Section 1502 including, but not limited to, adult
residential care facilities, ages 18 through 64; residential care facilities for
the elderly, ages 65 and over; nurseries for infants, ages 0 through 2,
excluding nurseries falling within Occupancy Group I, Division 1 or Division 1A;
group homes for children, ages 2 through 17; and small family homes.  (Added by
Ord. No. 169,944, Eff. 8/20/94.)	Compressed Gas – Any confined gas which is
under a pressure in excess of 15 psig at ambient temperature.	Container – Any
vessel of 60 U.S. gallons or less capacity used for transporting or storing
liquids.	Continuous Process Oven – Any drying oven into which the work charge
is continually introduced, so that the rate of vaporization of flammable vapors
within the oven approaches a constant rate.	Controlled Drilling Site – That
particular location upon which surface operation incident to oil well drilling
or deepening may be permitted under the terms of this article subject to the
written determination by the Zoning Administrator prescribing conditions. A
controlled drilling site must lie entirely within one or more of the districts
described in Section 13.01 of the L.A.M.C.	Corrosive Material – Any acid,
alkaline, caustic or other liquid or solid material which, when in contact with
living tissue, will cause damage to such tissue by chemical action, or which may
cause fire when in contact with other materials.	Covered Bale – Combustible
fibres packed in a special container or completely enclosed to such an extent
that the fibres do not present a flash-fire hazard.	Cross Aisle – A passageway
connecting two or more exit aisles that provides access to a required
exit.	Cylinder Filling Plant – Any lot or parcel of land or portion thereof
used for the purpose of filling portable pressure vessels with liquefied
flammable gas, flammable gas or other gas which is defined as a toxic material,
oxidizing material or unstable material.	Day Care – The care of persons during
any period of a 24-hour day where permanent sleeping accommodations are not
provided. “Day Care” shall not be construed to preclude the use of cots or
mats for napping purposes provided all employees, attendants, and staff
personnel are awake and on duty in the area where napping occurs during such
napping periods.	Department – The Los Angeles City Fire Department.	Dip Tank
– Any vat, vessel or container having a surface area in excess of one square
foot or a capacity in excess of five gallons, used in the process of dipping or
immersing objects in flammable or combustible liquids or from which flammable
vapors are emitted.	Direct Fire Oven – Any drying oven in which the products
of combustion and open flame heating elements enter the oven chamber.	Dispensing
– The pouring or transferring of any material from a con- tainer, tank, or
similar vessel whereby vapors, dusts, fumes, mists,  or gases may be liberated
to the atmosphere.	Dispensing Apparatus – Dispensing apparatus is the device
or system of devices including pump, motor, piping, meter, hose and nozzle used
in connection with an approved underground tank or approved pressure vessel, for
the dispensing of flammable or combustible liquids, liquefied flammable gas, or
flammable gas, into the fuel tanks of motor vehicles or approved portable
containers at or in connection with an auto fueling station.	Display – A
fabrication forming a screen, a backdrop, a flat, a curtain, a wall covering, a
hanging, or other decorative effect, placed to advertise, attract attention,
instruct, give direction to, entertain, or to cover or hide unsightly
background; but which is not an architectural part of a room or building, nor a
permanent part of a premises, vehicle or marine vessel.	Domestic Installation
– Any liquefied flammable gas tank piping valves, regulators and other
appurtenances, operating as a single unit and serving a dwelling.	Dry Cleaning
Plant – Any building, premises or room in which the actions of dry cleaning or
dyeing are performed frequently or regularly, whether as a primary business or
as an accessory operation useful or necessary to some other business.	Drying
Oven – Any heated enclosure operating at atmospheric pressure and at a
temperature of over 125° F. which is used for drying or processing flammable or
combustible materials.	Dwelling – Any building or portion thereof which
contains not more than two dwelling units.	Dwelling Unit – Any building or
portion thereof which contains living facilities, including provisions for
sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation for not more than one
family.	Emergency – An unexpected situation requiring immediate action or the
response of public safety resources to preserve life, health, or property or any
condition which constitutes an immediate threat to public safety.  (Added by
Ord. No. 167,326, Eff. 11/16/91.)	Emergency Assistance Center – A location
(Fire Control Room, Main Lobby, or a similar location) designated by the Fire
Safety Director or Assistant Fire Safety Director where they and other selected
personnel report during an emergency incident to manage the emergency evacuation
or fire drill.  (Added by Ord. No. 180,648, Eff. 6/1/09.)	Emergency Helicopter
Landing Facility – A heliport on high-rise buildings or elsewhere for Fire
Department emergency use only.	Emergency Power System – The wiring, fixtures,
equipment, and luminaires in or on a building which are required to be
automatically energized from an alternate on-site energy source within 10
seconds of failure of the normal electrical supply.	Essential Building Personnel
(Added by Ord. No. 180,648, Eff. 6/1/09.) – Personnel employed by the building
who possess special knowledge of the building and its systems such as, but not
limited to:	• Building Manager
	• Building Engineer
	• Security Personnel	Etiologic Agent – A toxic material that is a viable
microorganism which causes or may cause human disease as defined in the Code of
Federal Regulations, Chapter 49, Section 173,386.	Exhibit– An item or
presentation to attract notice of the public to what is interesting,
instructive, entertaining or of value; a show of talent in the arts; the
displaying and demonstrating of merchandise to attract buyers; a show of
comparison for competitive reasons in order to judge competition among persons,
pets, horses, livestock, poultry and birds but not including motion pictures,
legitimate theater, opera or such other presentations or productions held in
occupancies constructed and equipped for such use.	Exit – A prescribed means
of egress to a public way. Exits shall include intervening aisles, doors,
doorways, corridors, exterior exit balconies, ramps, stairways, smokeproof
enclosures, horizontal exits, exit passageways, exit courts and yards.	Exit
Court – A yard or court providing access to a public way for one or more
required exits.	Exit Passageway – An enclosed means of egress connecting a
required exit or exit court with a public way.	Explosive Material – Any
chemical compound, mixture or device, the primary and common purpose of which is
to function by explosion with substantially simultaneous release of gas and
heat, the resultant pressure being capable of producing destructive effects.
Explosive materials shall be divided into three classes as follows:	Class A –
Explosive Materials which function by detonation, including, but not limited to
dynamite, nitroglycerine, picric acid, lead azide, fulminate of mercury, black
powder, blasting caps, and detonating primers.	Class B – Explosive Materials
which in general function by rapid combustion rather than by detonation,
including, but not limited to propellant explosives (including some smokeless
powders, photographic flash powders, some special fireworks, and some
pyrotechnic signal devices.	Class C – Manufactured articles which contain
Class A or B Explosive Materials, or both, as components but in restricted
quantities.	Extension Cord – A portable flexible electrical cord of any length
which has one male connector on one end and one or more female connectors on the
other.	False Alarm – An alarm signal eliciting an emergency response from fire
service personnel when a situation requiring such response does not, in fact,
exist.  (Added by Ord. No. 167,326, Eff. 11/16/91.)	EXCEPTION:	Alarm signal
caused by conditions of nature (i.e., earthquake, flood, wind, etc.), verifiable
power outage, telephone service problems, or any nonmalicious accidental
occurrence.	Fence – A barrier made of posts, wire, cable, boards, or other
material.	Field Test – The means by which a decoration composed of combustible
material is tested to determine its flammability characteristics whereby a
sample of the actual material being used is exposed to a flame for 12 seconds
without self-sustaining ignition.	Film Vault – A vault approved for storage of
cellulose nitrate film, constructed in accordance with the requirements of the
Building Department.	Fines – Fine combustible metal scrap and air-borne
waste.	Fire Alarm – A signal which transmits notice of an emergency requiring
immediate action to safeguard life and/or property from fire.  (Added by Ord.
No. 167,326, Eff. 11/16/91.)	Fire Alarm System – A fire protective signaling
system which transmits and emits signals indicating an emergency requiring
immediate action to safeguard life or property from fire.	Fire Assembly – The
assembly of a fire door, fire window, fire curtain, fire shutters, or fire
damper including all required hardware, anchorage, frames, and sills.	Fire
Assembly, Automatic-closing – A fire assembly which may remain in an open
position and which will close automatically when subjected to an increase in
temperature (maximum rating of 165° F.) or the actuation of a smoke
detector.	Fire Assembly, Self-closing – A fire assembly which is maintained in
a normally closed position and is equipped with an approved device to ensure
closing and latching after having been opened for use.	Firebreak – Any area
which is cleared of combustible vegetation to control the spread of fire.	Fire
Buffer Zone – See Definition of “Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zone”. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 176,943, Eff. 10/5/05.)	Fire Department Access – The way
or approach reserved for the Department to gain entry or by which the Department
enters any facility, structure, group of structures, or premises including any
required fire lane for Department apparatus.	Fire District – All fire
districts established by law.	Fire Escape – A secondary exit attached to the
exterior wall of a building that is two or more stories in height and which
provides emergency egress from the building. Fire escapes may include, but are
not limited to, stairs, railings, landings, and ladders.	Fire Hazard – Any
condition, arrangement, or act which increases the likelihood of fire to a
greater degree than is recognized as acceptable practice by the Department or
which may provide a ready fuel supply to augment the spread or intensity of a
fire, or which may obstruct, delay, hinder, or interfere with the operations of
the Department or the egress of occupants in the event of fire.	Fire Protection
Equipment – Any appliance, device, or system provided or installed for use on
a premises in the event of fire. It may include, but is not limited to, fire
assemblies, fire hydrants, Fire Department connections and fire protection
systems.	Fire Protection System – Any fire alarm device or system, fire
extinguishing device or system, or their combination for the premises, which is
designed and installed for detecting, controlling, or extinguishing a fire or
otherwise alerting occupants of the premises that a fire is in progress or has
occurred.	Fire Protective Signaling System – A system of electrical devices
and circuits, or mechanical devices, installed, arranged, and maintained to
form, transmit, or emit signals indicating an emergency requiring immediate
action to safeguard life and property from fire.	Fire Retardant – Any chemical
formulation, paint, coating, or other finish which reduces the surface
flamespread rating and reduces or eliminates combustible characteristics of the
treated material.	Fire Safety – Includes fire prevention, fire detection, fire
control, fire extinguishment, and fire investigation.	Fire Safety Director –
An employee of the owner or manager or resident of the building and designated
as the Fire Safety Director by the owner, administrator, or manager of a
high-rise building, health care facility, institution or other occupancy.  The
Fire Safety Director must have a valid Fire Safety Director Certificate and be
responsible for the establishment, implementation, and maintenance of a
Department approved Emergency Plan for that occupancy, and provide training in
the use of first aid, fire equipment and building evacuation procedures which
are approved by the Fire Chief.  (Amended by Ord. No. 180,648, Eff.
6/1/09.)	Fire Safety Director Certificate – A written document approved by the
Fire Chief authorizing an employee/resident of a high rise building, health care
facility or institution, to be the Fire Safety Director.  The Certificate is
site specific and shall only apply to that high-rise building, health care
facility, institution or other occupancy.  (Added by Ord. No. 180,648, Eff.
6/1/09.)	Fire Safety Officer – A Uniformed or a Certified Fire Safety Officer
as stated below:	A.	Uniformed Fire Safety Officer – A uniformed member of the
Department assigned to the Bureau of Fire Prevention and Public
Safety.	B.	Certified Fire Safety Officer – A person approved and assigned by
the Chief to perform the duties of a Fire Safety Officer.  (Amended by Ord. No.
167,326, Eff. 11/16/91.)	Fireworks – Any toy pistols, toy cannons, toy canes
or toy guns in which explosive materials are used, fire balloons (Balloons of a
type which have burning material of any kind attached thereto or which require
fire underneath to propel them), firecrackers, torpedoes, skyrockets, rockets,
roman candles, dago bombs, sparklers, or other devices containing any
combustible or explosive substance for the purpose of producing a visible or
audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration, or detonation, but not to
include toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other similar devices in which
paper caps containing not more than twenty-five hundredths (.25) grain of
explosive compound per cap are used.	Flame Thrower – Any portable device which
is designed to throw, toss, fling, project, or propel flammable material,
ignited with an igniter, intended to be ignited or otherwise toward or to an
aiming point or auxiliary aiming point.	Flame Retardant/Flame Resistant – A
characteristic of certain fabrics or materials which renders them resistant to
flame or fire to the extent that it will successfully withstand standard flame
resistance tests adopted by the State Fire Marshal.	Flammable Dust – Any solid
material sufficiently comminuted for suspension in air which, when so suspended,
is capable of self-sustained combustion.	Flammable Fibre – Any free burning
material in a fibrous or shredded form including but not limited to cotton,
sisal, rayon, henequen, istle, jute, hemp, tow, coca fibre, oakum, kapok,
spanish moss, excelsior, and shredded paper.	Flammable Gas – Any gas having a
flammability range greater than one percent (by volume) with air.	Flammable
Liquid – Any liquid having a flash point below 100° F. and having a vapor
pressure not exceeding 40 pounds per square inch (absolute) at 100° F. Class I
liquids shall be classified as follows:	Class IA liquids having flash points
below 73° F. and boiling points below 100° F.	Class IB liquids having flash
points below 73° F. and boiling points at or above 100° F.	Class IC liquids
having flash points at or above 73° F. and below 100° F.	Flammable Material
– Any material included under the definitions flammable solid, flammable dust,
flammable fibre, flammable liquid, flammable gas and liquefied flammable
gas.	Flammable Range – The difference between the lower and upper flammable
limits, expressed in terms of percentage, by volume of gas or vapor in
air.	Flammable Solid – Any solid or semi-solid material which is classified as
flammable when tested in accordance with L.A.F.D. Standard No. 43.	Flash Point
– The minimum temperature at which a liquid gives out vapors in sufficient
concentrations to form an ignitible mixture with air near the surface of the
liquid within the vessel as specified by appropriate test procedures in
accordance with the provisions of L.A.F.D. Standards No. 33, 34, and 35.	Floor
Warden – A responsible person, holding a valid Floor Warden Certificate,
designated on each floor of every high-rise building, and charged with the
responsibility of overseeing and ensuring the safe and complete evacuation or
relocation of occupants during an emergency or fire drill.  (Added by Ord. No.
180,648, Eff. 6/1/09.)	Floor Warden Certificate – A written document approved
by the Fire Chief authorizing an employee/resident of a high-rise building to be
the Floor Warden.  The Certificate is site specific and shall only apply to
that high-rise building.  (Added by Ord. No. 180,648, Eff. 6/1/09.)	Fogging –
The use of insecticidal liquids which have been passed through thermal
fog-generating units, where, by means of heat, pressure and turbulence, they are
transformed and discharged in the form of fog or mist.	Fuel Tank – A container
used solely for the purpose of supplying flammable or combustible liquid as a
fuel to an internal combustion engine.	Fumigant – Any liquid, gas or solid,
from which a flammable or toxic gas or vapor is produced, when used or intended
to be used in fumigation.	EXCEPTIONS:	Ant pastes, fly sprays, and other
insecticidal liquids having a flash point of 100° F. or above are not deemed to
be fumigants within the above definition, unless sprayed or otherwise released
in an atomized or vapor form from a container exceeding one gallon
capacity.	Fumigation – The use of a fumigant in gas or vapor form to eliminate
any organism, whether animal or plant, and whether performed in the open, under
a tarpaulin or inside a chamber, room, building, box car, ship, or
elsewhere.	Fumigator – Any corporation, firm, individual, association, or
employee thereof who performs fumigation.	Gallon – One U.S. Standard
Gallon.	Garage – A building or portion thereof in which a motor vehicle con-
taining flammable or combustible liquids in its tank is stored, repaired or
kept.	Garage, Private – A building or portion thereof, not more than 1,000
square feet in area, in which only motor vehicles used by the occupants of the
building or buildings on the premises are stored or kept.	Garage, Public – Any
garage other than a Private Garage.	Gas – Any substance which is in gaseous
form at a temperature of 70° F. and a pressure of one atmosphere absolute.	Gas
Detection System– (Refer to LA Building Code Section 91.7102).  (Added by
Ord. No. 179,905, Eff. 6/27/08.)	Gas Holder – Any variable volume container
having a maximum capacity of not less than 100 cubic feet, used for the storage
of gas at pressures of not more than one psig.	Gauge – U.S. Standard
Gauge.	General Approval – A written document issued by authority of the Chief
which constitutes Department approval of the type, design, and construction of
any appliance, device, equipment, or system.	Grade (Adjacent Ground Elevation)
– The lowest point of elevation of the finished surface of the ground, paving,
or sidewalk within the area between the building and the property line, or when
the property line is more than five feet from the building, the lowest point of
elevation between the building and a line five feet from the building.	Ground
Kettle –Any roofing kettle not mounted on wheels.	Group Drill Site – The
surface arrangement and location of two or more oil wells in the manner and
subject to the conditions specified by the Department.	Guest Room – Any room
or rooms used or intended to be used by a guest for sleeping purposes only.
Every 100 square feet of gross floor area in a dormitory shall be considered to
be a guest room.	Hangar – Any building or structure used partly or entirely
for storing or parking any aircraft.	Hazardous Anesthetizing Area – Any area
from the floor level to a level of five feet above the floor in a surgery or
other location where anesthetics are administered.
	Hazardous Atmosphere – Any concentration of flammable gases, vapors, or dust
(in air) which exceeds 25% of the lower flammable limit.	Hazardous Material –
Any material included under the definitions of Air Reactive Material,
Combustible Liquid, Corrosive Material, Explosive Material, Flammable Material,
Organic Peroxide, Oxidizing Material, Radioactive Material, Toxic Material,
Unstable Material, or Water-Reactive Material, and any substance or mixture of
substances which is an irritant, a sensitizer, or which generates pressure
through exposure to heat, decomposition, or other means.	Hazardous Materials
Cabinet – A Cabinet constructed in accordance with the provisions of L.A.F.D.
Standard No. 40.	Hazardous Materials Room – A room used for the storage and
incidental dispensing of hazardous materials except those classified as
explosive materials and which is built in accordance with Chapter 9 of the
L.A.M.C. (Building Code).	Hazardous Plastic – Any plastic material or
compound, other than cellulose nitrate film, containing cellulose nitrate
consisting of 10.7 percent to 12.2 percent nitration and any material which
consists of, or contains as an essential ingredient, an organic substance of
large molecular weight, and which is commonly known as a plastic
material.	Hazardous Refuse – Any combustible material including but not
limited to, rubbish, trash, debris, litter, scrap lumber, or sweepings that
could provide a ready fuel supply to augment the spread or intensity of a
fire.	Head and Bulkhead – A liquid-tight transverse closure at the end of a
cargo tank or between compartments of a cargo tank.	Health Care Facility
Instructor – A person who conducts training classes as approved by the
Department, for hospitals and/or sanitariums, and who issues, on behalf of the
Department, certificates for completion of “Fire/Life Safety” training in
the City of Los Angeles.	Heliport – An area of land, water, or structure used
or intended to be used for the landing and takeoff of helicopters.	High-Rise
Building, Existing – A building over 75 feet in height which is subject to the
provisions of California Administrative Code, Title 24, Chapter 2-17, Section
2-1733 through 2-1747, inclusive and the construction of which was commenced or
completed prior to July 1, 1974.	High-Rise Building, New – A building over 75
feet in height which is subject to the provisions of California Administrative
Code, Title 24, Chapter 2-18, Section 2-1807, and Division 118 of this article
and the construction of which was commenced on or after July 1, 1974.	High-Rise
Life Safety Service – A person or firm in the business of developing and/or
conducting training in emergency planning, evacuation procedures, and the use of
first-aid fire equipment in high-rise buildings in the City of Los Angeles which
has obtained a Certificate of Fitness or otherwise been approved by the
Department.	Horizontal Exit – An exit from one building into another building
of approximately the same level, or through or around a wall constructed as
required for a two-hour occupancy separation, and which completely divides a
floor into two or more separate areas so as to establish an area of refuge
affording safety from fire or smoke coming from the area from which escape is
made.	Hospital – Any building which is a “hospital building” as that term
is defined in Section 15026 of the State Health and Safety Code.	Hotel – Any
building containing six or more guest rooms intended or designed to be used,
rented, or occupied for sleeping purposes by guests.	Hydrant Cart – A portable
system of pipes, hoses, valves, meters filters and other appurtenances for
controlling the transfer of fuel from fixed piping systems into the fuel tanks
of aircraft.	Ignition Temperature – The minimum temperature required to
initiate or cause self-sustained combustion.	Indirect Fired Oven – Any drying
oven in which the oven atmosphere, is kept separate from combustion gases and
from any open flame or other heating element.	Industrial Processing Equipment
– Any piping equipment, system, appliance or device, used or intended to be
used, in an industrial manufacturing or commercial occupancy for the handling or
processing of Hazardous Materials.	Infant – Any child less than six years of
age who is unable to walk and requires the aid of another person to evacuate the
building.	Inert Atmosphere – Any atmosphere in which combustion cannot
occur.	Inert Gas – Any gas which is non-flammable and chemically inactive for
the use intended.	Institutional Occupancy – Any building used as a Boarding
Home Convalescent Home, Hospital, Mental Hospital, Mental Sanitarium, Nursing
Home, Sanitarium, Jail, Prison, Reformatory and building of similar type and
use. Any nursery for the full-time care of children under the age of six or
homes for children six years or over. Any home or facility for the housing of
any person aged 18 through 64 when such person is referred to or placed within
such home or facility for protective social care and supervisory services by any
governmental agency.	EXCEPTIONS:	1.	Buildings used only for private residential
purposes.	2.	Homes, institutions, or day care facilities which provide non-
medical board, room and care for six or fewer ambulatory children only.	Internal
Valve – A valve designed and installed in such a manner as to remain in an
operable condition when the exterior parts are damaged or sheared off, and when
it is installed in a tank opening it will prevent the unintentional escape of
the contents of the tank.	Kiln – A heated enclosure for processing a substance
by burning, firing or drying.	Laboratory – A building, room, or other
designated area, either inside or outside a building, devoted to experimental
studies in science, or to testing, analysis, inspection, research, or process
control and development. Laboratories may contain one or more separate
laboratory work areas which involve the use of hazardous materials. Laboratories
shall be divided into two classes:	Class A – Any laboratory which uses or
processes any hazardous material on the premises in a quantity over the exempt
amount as set forth in Table 4-A in Division 4 of this article.	Class B – Any
laboratory which uses or processes hazardous materials on the premises within
the quantities which are within the exempt amounts as set forth in Table 4-A in
Division 4 of this article.	Lawn Torch – Any torch or flare burning flammable
or combustible liquids which is used for light or decoration out of
doors.	Liquefied Flammable Gas – Any liquid or gas which is a liquid while
under pressure and having a vapor pressure in excess of 27 psia at a temperature
of 100° F. and a flammability range with air greater than one per cent by
volume.	Liquid – Any material which has a fluidity greater than that of 300
penetration asphalt when tested in accordance with approved standards. When not
otherwise identified, the term “Liquid” refers to either flammable or
combustible liquids.	Liquid Storage Warehouse – A building used only for the
storage of flammable or combustible liquids in unopened containers or portable
tanks and classified herein as a Group H, Division 3 occupancy.	Listed –
Equipment or materials included on a list published by a nationally recognized
testing laboratory, inspection agency, or other organization concerned with
product evaluation that maintains periodic inspection of production of listed
equipment or materials, and whose listing states that equipment or materials
meet nationally recognized standards and have been tested and found suitable for
use in a specified manner.	Little Theater – Any room, hall, auditorium or
premises having a stage, platform or area designed or used for entertainment and
adapted to the presentation of plays, musicals, operas, pageants, or similar
forms of entertainment, such stage, platform or area not requiring a fire
resistive curtain, automatic sprinkler system, or automatic vents.	Live
Theatrical Production –Any live theatrical performance in any motion picture
theater, theater, or little theater, including, but not limited to, plays,
dramas, pageants, musicals, operas, circuses, performances, and similar
presentations utilizing scenery and/or settings, lighting, or other stage
dressing or paraphernalia.	Loading Rack – Any system, piping, or other
appurtenances maintained and used for transferring hazardous materials between
pipe lines or tanks and tank vehicles, tank cars, tank vessels, or containers on
vehicles.	Lodging House – Any building or portion thereof containing not more
than five guest rooms where rent is paid for occupancy.	Low Pressure Tank –
Any tank designed to operate at pressure, above 0.5 psig, but not more than 15
psig.	Lower Flammable Limit – The minimum concentration of a flammable gas,
vapor, or dust that will form an ignitable mixture with air at ambient
atmospheric temperature and pressure.	Magnesium – The pure metal and alloys of
which the major part is magnesium.	Marine Oil Terminal – Any plant, station,
premises, or equipment used in connection therewith, located on the harbor or
ocean front, which is designed and intended to deliver to or receive from
oceangoing vessels liquefied or gaseous hazardous materials or flammable or
combustible liquids.	Marine Service Station – Any station, plant, premises or
equipment used in connection therewith, where flammable or combustible liquids
used as motor fuels are dispensed from equipment, on shore, piers or wharves to
floating craft for fuel, except bunkering facilities for oceangoing
vessels.	Membrane Structure – A temporary structure including, but not limited
to, air-inflated structures, air-supported structures, cable structures, or
frame-covered structures, as defined in Division 115 of this article.	Metal
Container – An all metal container having a tight fitting screw or snap type
cover.	Metal Drum – A metal drum constructed according to L.A.F.D. Standard
No. 26 and approved for the use to which it is intended.	Mobile Fuel Tank – A
liquefied flammable gas cylinder or tank used solely for the purpose of
supplying liquefied flammable gas to the motor of a motor vehicle, or other
internal combustion engine.	Molten Solid – All solid chemicals, other than
explosives, which are in molten form by reason of elevated temperatures, and
which are at a temperature sufficient to ignite ordinary combustible materials
or to react violently with water.	Motel – Shall mean Hotel as defined in this
article.	Motion Picture Theater – Any building or premises or portion thereof
designed or used for the showing of motion pictures, when an admission fee is
charged and when such building or premises is open to the public and has a
capacity of 10 or more persons.	Motor Vehicle – Any vehicle equipped with a
motor for propulsion which is used or intended to be used for the transportation
of freight or passengers on land.	Mountain Fire District – See “Very High
Fire Hazard Severity Zone”.  (Amended by Ord. No. 176,943, Eff.
10/5/05.)	Municipal Code – The Los Angeles Municipal Code.	Native Brush or
Shrub – All vegetation which is indigenous to and found within the City of Los
Angeles.	Natural Gasoline Plant – Any facility in which gasoline is extracted
from petroleum vapors produced at the well.	Net Acre – An area of ground
surface consisting of 43,560 square feet exclusive of any public street, alley,
parkway, sidewalk, easement or other public right-of-way.	Non-Ambulatory Person
– Any person who is unable to leave a building unassisted under emergency
conditions. It includes any person who is unable to physically and mentally
respond to a sensory signal or an oral instruction relating to fire danger, and
persons who depend upon mechanical aids such as crutches, walkers, and
wheelchairs. The determination of ambulatory or nonambulatory status of persons
shall be in accordance with Section 13131 of the State Health and Safety
Code.	Normal Working Hours – The hours between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. of any
day except Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  (Added by Ord. No. 180,648,
Eff. 6/1/09.)	Occupancy – The purpose for which a building, or part thereof,
is used or intended to be used.	Occupancy Groups – For the purpose of this
article, occupancies are classified as follows:	Group A Occupancies:	Division 1.
Any assembly occupancy with a stage and occupant load of 1,000 or more.	Division
2. Any assembly occupancy or portion thereof with a stage and an occupant load
of less than 1,000.	Division 2.1. Any assembly occupancy or portion thereof
without a stage and with an occupant load of 300 or more, including such
occupancies used for educational purposes and not classified as a Group E or
Group B, Division 2 Occupancy.	Division 3. Any assembly occupancy or portion
thereof without a stage and with an occupant load of less than 300, including
such occupancies used for educational purposes and not classified as a Group E
or Group B, Division 2 Occupancy.	Division 4. Stadiums, reviewing stands, and
amusement park structures not included within Group A Occupancies.	Group B
Occupancies:	Division 1. Gasoline service stations and garages where no repair
work is done on vehicles except exchange of parts and maintenance requiring no
open flame, welding, or the use of flammable liquids.	Division 2. Drinking and
dining establishments having an occupant load of less than 50, wholesale and
retail stores, office buildings, printing plants, municipal police and fire
stations, factories, and workshops using material not flammable or combustible,
storage and sales rooms for combustible goods, paint stores without bulk
handling and buildings or portions of buildings, used for educational purposes
beyond the twelfth grade with less than 50 occupants.	Division 3. Aircraft
hangars where no repair work is done except exchange of parts and maintenance
requiring no open flame, welding, or the use of flammable liquids; open parking
garages and heliports.	Division 4. Ice plants, power plants, pumping plants,
cold storage plants, creameries, factories, workshops and storage areas and
sales rooms for noncombustible and nonexplosive materials.	Group D
Occupancies:	Any home or facility for the housing of any person aged 18 through
64 when such person is referred to or placed within such home or facility for
protective social care and supervisory services by any governmental
agency.	Division 1. Occupancies housing more than six non-ambulatory persons on
the premises not including employees or relatives of the owner or
operator.	Division 2. Occupancies housing six or less non-ambulatory persons on
the premises not including employees or relatives of the owner or
operator.	Division 3. Occupancies housing more than six ambulatory persons on
the premises not including employees or relatives of the owner or
operator.	Division 4. Occupancies housing six or less ambulatory persons on the
premises not including employees or relatives of the owner or operator.	Group E
Occupancies:	Division 1. Any building used for educational purposes through the
twelfth grade by 50 or more persons for more than 12 hours per week or four
hours in any one day.	Division 2. Any building used for educational purposes
through the twelfth grade by less than 50 persons for more than 12 hours per
week or four hours in any one day.	Division 3. Any non-residential building used
for day care purposes for more than six children and any residential building
used for day care purposes for more than 12 children.	Group H
Occupancies:	Division 1. Every occupancy where:	1.	Class IA or IB liquids in
aggregate quantities exceeding the exempt amounts shown in Table 4-A are
manufactured, processed, or used in open containers or open systems;	2.	Unstable
materials in any amount are manufactured, processed, or used;	3.	Explosive
materials in any amount are manufactured, processed, or used and wherein there
is more than 10 pounds of explosive materials located on the premises at any one
time;	4.	Flammable gases or liquefied flammable gases in aggregate quantities
exceeding the exempt amounts shown in Table 4-A are at any time manufactured,
processed, or used;	5.	Class I, II, and III organic peroxides in aggregate
quantities exceeding the exempt amounts shown in Table 4-A are stored,
manufactured, processed, or used.	Division 2. Every occupancy where:	1.	Class IA
or IB liquids in aggregate quantities exceeding the exempt amounts shown in
Table 4-A are stored, manufactured, processed, or used in closed containers or
closed systems;	2.	Class IC or Class II liquids in aggregate quantities
exceeding the exempt amounts shown in Table 4-A are stored, manufactured,
processed, or used in open containers or open systems;	3.	Flammable dust is in
suspension in the air continuously or intermittently from use, manufacturing,
processing, or bulk storage operations;	4.	Unstable materials are stored in any
amount.	5.	Flammable gases or liquefied flammable gases are stored in aggregate
quantities exceeding the exempt amounts shown in Table 4-A.	6.	Spray-painting
rooms are located.	Division 3. Every occupancy where:	1.	Class IA or IB liquids
in aggregate quantities exceeding the exempt amounts shown in Table 4-A are
stored in closed containers or closed systems without dispensing;	2.	Class IC or
Class II liquids in aggregate quantities exceeding the exempt amounts shown in
Table 4-A are stored, manufactured, processed, or used in closed containers or
closed systems;	3.	Combustible liquids in aggregate quantities exceeding the
exempt amounts shown in Table 4-A are stored, manufactured, processed, or
used;	4.	Loose flammable fibers in aggregate quantities exceeding 100 cubic feet
are stored, processed, or used; or where baled or packaged flammable fibers in
aggregate quantities exceeding 1,000 cubic feet are stored with fibers partially
or totally exposed;	5.	Class II or Class IIIA liquid solvents are used in a dry
cleaning process in closed systems;	6.	Woodworking establishments, planing
mills, box factories, buffing rooms for tire rebuilding plants, picking rooms,
shops, factories, or warehouses where loose combustible fibers or dusts are
manufactured, processed, generated, or stored, and pin refinishing
rooms.	Division 4. Repair garages not classified as Group B, Division
1.	Division 5. Aircraft Repair Hangars.	Group I, Division 1, 2, and 3
Occupancies:	Division 1. Nurseries for the full-time care of children under the
age of six (each accommodating more than six persons); hospitals, sanitariums,
nursing homes with non-ambulatory patients and similar buildings (each
accommodating more than six persons).	Division 2. Nursing homes for ambulatory
patients, homes for children six years of age or over (each accommodating more
than six persons.)	Division 3. Buildings where inmates are restrained including,
but not limited to, mental hospitals, mental sanitariums, jails, prisons, and
reformatories.	EXCEPTION:	Group I, Division 1, 2 and 3 Occupancies shall not
include buildings used only for private residential purposes or for a family
group.	Group I, Division 1A and Group I, Division 2A Occupancies:	Division 1A.
Nurseries for the  time care of children under the age of six but not including
“Infants”, each accommodating six or less persons; hospitals, sanitariums,
nursing homes with non-ambulatory patients and similar buildings, each
accommodating six or less persons;	Division 2A. Nursing homes for ambulatory
patients, homes for children six years of age or over, each accommodating six or
less persons.	EXCEPTION:	Group I, Division 1A and 2A Occupancies shall not
include homes, institutions, or day care facilities which provide non-medical
board, room, and care for 12 or fewer ambulatory children only.	Group M
Occupancies:	Division 1. Private garages, carports, sheds, and agricultural
buildings.	Division 2. Fences over six feet high, tanks, and towers.	Group R
Occupancies:	Division 1. Hotels, apartment houses and condominiums. Convents and
monasteries each accommodating more than 10 persons.	Division 2. Not
used.	Division 3. Dwellings and lodging houses.	Occupant Load – The total
number of persons that may occupy a building, portion of a building or premises
at any one time for assembly purposes.	Oil Drilling District – A district
described in Section 13.01 of the L.A.M.C.	Oil Well – Any well or hole already
drilled, being drilled or to be drilled into the surface of the earth which is
used or intended to be used in connection with coring, or the drilling for,
prospecting for, or producing petroleum, natural gas, or other hydrocarbon
substances; or is used or intended to be used for the subsurface injection into
the earth of oil field waste, gases, water or liquid substances; including any
such existing hole, well or casing which has not been abandoned in accordance
with the requirements of Division 90 of this article, except that “Oil Well”
shall not include “Temporary Geological Exploratory Core Hole” as in this
section.	Oil Well Class A – Those oil wells used or intended to be used for
the production of petroleum, natural gas or other hydrocarbon products.	Oil Well
Class B – Those oil wells used or intended to be used solely for the
subsurface injection into the earth of oil field waste, gas, water or liquid
substances.	Operating Unit – All of the contiguous lands lying within any
portion of the City in which drilling is permitted, and which lands are included
in the terms of the lease, permit or other agreement pursuant to which the well
in question is drilled or authorized to be drilled, whether such lands are in
one ownership or in different ownerships, and whether such lands are described
in said lease, permit or agreement as one parcel or as several parcels. If there
are separate units of non-contiguous lands containing at least one net acre
included in the terms of such lease, permit, or agreement, each such unit shall
be deemed a separate operating unit.	Organic Peroxide – Those organic
compounds which are identified by their active oxygen to oxygen linkage being
combined with the organic radical. Note: Class I, II, and III organic peroxides
are heat and shock sensitive and are known as “Potentially explosive
chemicals.” Examples of such peroxides are benzoyl peroxide and methyl ethyl
ketone peroxide. Organic peroxides shall be divided into the following
classifications of hazard:	Class I:  Organic peroxides that present a high
explosion hazard, readily capable of detonation or rapid explosive decomposition
when exposed to thermal or mechanical shock, or in the absence of a controlled
temperature, or when crystallization out of solution occurs.	Class II: Organic
peroxides that present an intermediate explosion hazard capable of detonation or
explosive decomposition when exposed to thermal or mechanical shock, or in the
absence of a controlled temperature, or when dilution or inhibitors are
significantly reduced.	Class III: Organic peroxides that present a moderate
explosion and severe fire hazard. Characteristics are rapid burning with high
heat liberation or vapor which forms an explosion hazard. These peroxides may
require dilution or inhibitors for storage and handling at ambient
temperatures.	Class IV: Organic peroxides that present a moderate fire hazard
and may require dilution or inhibitors for storage and handling at ambient
temperatures.	Class V: Organic peroxides that present a low or negligible fire
hazard equivalent to or less than ordinary combustibles.	Overcrowded – A
condition that results from more persons occupying a room, building, or premises
than are approved by the Chief.	Owner – Owner or owner-of-record shall mean
the owner of the property as shown on the last County Equalized Assessment Roll
and shall also mean any person whose name appears as an owner on the County
Assessor’s records which that office uses to prepare its next Assessment Roll
and/or any person whose name and address appears in the latest Real Property
Records of the City Engineer, whichever is more current at the time.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 181,595, Eff. 4/10/11.)	Oxidizing Material – Any chemical element
or compound which may yield oxygen or violently react when involved in a fire or
when in contact with water or which may increase the intensity of a fire even
though it may be relatively non-combustible.	Panic Hardware – A listed
door-latch assembly incorporating an unlatching device of which the activating
portion extends across at least one-half the width of the door leaf on which it
is installed.	Parapet Wall –.That part of any wall entirely above the roof
line.	Patch Kettle – Any pot or container with a capacity of less than six
gallons, used for pre-heating tar, asphalt, pitch or similar substance for
roofs, streets, floors, pipes or similar objects.	Permit – A written document
issued by authority of the Chief to any person for the purpose of granting
permission to such person to con- duct or engage in any business, operation, or
act for which approval of the Department is required.	Person – A natural
person, joint venture, joint stock company, partnership, association, club,
company, corporation, business trust organization, or the manager, lessee,
agent, servant, officer or employee of any of them.	Petroleum Facility – Any
Oil Well, Natural Gasoline Plant, Refiner, Bulk Distributing Station, Marine Oil
Terminal or Marine Service Station.	Place of Assemblage – Shall mean Assembly
Occupancy as defined in this article.	Portable Fire Extinguisher – A portable
device containing powder, liquid, or gases which can be opened under pressure
for the purpose of suppressing or extinguishing a fire.	Portable Magazine – A
stout box constructed in accordance with the provisions of L.A.F.D. Standard No.
40 for the transportation or temporary storage of not more than one hundred
pounds of explosive materials.	Portable Shipping Tank – Any tank having a
liquid capacity over 60 gallons and not over 660 gallons which is readily
movable from place to place either with or without special handling equipment
and which is not permanently attached to its transporting vehicle.	Portable Tank
– Any closed vessel having a liquid capacity over 60 gallons and not intended
for fixed installation.	Premises – Any parcel of land, regardless of the
number of contiguous lots, occupied by or under the control of the same person
or firm and including all buildings, structures, and improvements
thereon.	Pressure Vessel – Any unfired closed metal container designed to
operate at pressures above 15 psig.	Private Fire Hydrant – An approved fire
hydrant which is located on private property and is connected to and serviced by
the public water system.	Private First Responder (Added by Ord. No. 180,648,
Eff. 6/1/09.) – Personnel incorporated into the Emergency Plan, trained to
handle an emergency incident by providing direction and assistance prior to the
arrival of emergency responders.  All Private First Responders must be approved
by the Fire Department.  EXCEPTION: Paramedics and Emergency Medical
Technicians are approved by the California Emergency Medical Services
Authority.  Private First Responders include, but are not limited to:	• Fire
Safety Director 
	• Floor Warden 
	• Paramedic
	• Emergency Medical Technician (EMT)
	• Civilian Emergency Response Team (CERT)	Process – The manufacturing,
handling, blending, conversion, purification, recovery, separation, synthesis or
use of any commodity or material regulated by this article.	Public Way – Any
street, alley, or similar parcel of land essentially unobstructed from the
ground to the sky which is deeded, dedicated or otherwise permanently
appropriated to the public for public use and having an unobstructed width of
not less than 10 feet.	Razor Ribbon – A metal ribbon with double-edged
barbs.	Re-Drill – Any oil well drilling activity made through an original well
bore for the purpose of penetrating a possible oil bearing strata at a lower
level, or by slant drilling to penetrate the same strata at a different
location.	Refinery – A plant, premises or facility used for the process or
production of petroleum, chemicals, or petrochemicals from raw or basic
materials to marketable products in amounts exceeding 100 barrels per day
capacity.	Representative – A duly sworn member of the Department.	Residential
Occupancy – Any use of a building as an apartment house, condominium,
townhouse, hotel, dwelling, lodging house, convent, or monastery.	Responsible
Resident – A person who has charge of an apartment house or hotel in
accordance with the requirements of Division 112 of this article and who
maintains primary residence therein.	Required Exit – Those exits from
buildings or premises required by the Los Angeles Municipal Code.	Roofing Kettle
– Any pot or kettle in excess of 15 gallons capacity, used for preheating tar,
asphalt, pitch or similar substances for roofs, streets, floors, pipes or
similar objects.	Rubbish Chute – Any shaft enclosure provided and constructed
within a building, in accordance with Chapter 9 of the L.A.M.C. (Building Code)
for the express purpose of transmitting hazardous refuse and other material from
upper floors to a rubbish room located on a lower floor or basement, or into an
approved container outside of a building.	Rubbish Room – Any room appropriated
for the storage or treatment of hazardous refuse and other material and
constructed in accordance with Chapter 9 of the L.A.M.C. (Building Code).	Safety
Can – An approved container of not more than five gallons capacity having a
springclosing lid and spout cover and designed to safely relieve internal
pressure when subjected to fire exposure.	Safety Control Device – An approved
automatic supervising device so installed that it will, in conjunction with
others of required types, maintain the required conditions of safety for the
purpose of preventing the development of any fire or explosion hazard.	Safety
Ventilation System – A ventilation system used in conjunction with Ovens and
Furnaces or Industrial Processing Equipment for the purpose of preventing
Hazardous Atmospheres.	Sanitarium – A building, premises, or portion thereof,
except dwellings, appropriated to the housing, reception or care on a 24-hour
basis of more than one non-ambulatory person or more than six ambulatory persons
who are receiving special care for any cause, wherein no person receives
surgical or obstetrical care and wherein no facilities are provided for
rendering such care.	School – A building, premises, or portion thereof used
for education, training, or instruction through the twelfth grade for more than
six persons for more than 12 hours per week or four hours in any one day.	Skid
Tank – A portable low pressure tank or pressure vessel equipped with fixed
skids or feet, or lugs to which skids may be attached.	Small Arm Ammunition –
Ammunition consisting of a metal, plastic or paper cartridge case, and a primer
and propelling charge, with without a projectile, designed to be fired from a
pistol, rifle, shotgun or automatic weapon not exceeding .75 calibre in size,
including but not limited to signaling devices and explosive rivets.	Smoke
Detector – An approved device which senses visible or invisible particles of
combustion. Such detector shall bear a label or other identification issued by
an approved testing agency and listed by the State Fire Marshal.	Smoking –
Lighting, igniting, holding , or possessing any lighted cigar, cigarette or
pipe, or carrying, throwing or depositing any lighted smoldering cigar,
cigarette, pipe or other smoldering material.	Spark Arrester – For Chimneys:
Any device for arresting burning carbon or sparks, constructed of minimum 12
gauge  woven wire metal, stainless steel, aluminum, copper or brass, with
one-half inch maximum openings, or cast iron plate, three-sixteenths inch
minimum thickness and having one-half inch perforations spaced one- inch apart,
measured center to center.	Spark Arrester – For Industrial Trucks and Machines
– Any device used and maintained to retard sparks, adaptable for the hazard
classification involved as approved by the Chief.	Spark Arrester – For
Internal Combustion Engines Operated in or near Grain, Hay, Grass or
Brush-Covered Areas – An approved spark arrester listed in the Spark Arrester
Identification Guide, published by the Forest Service, United States Department
of Agriculture.	Special Permit – A written document issued by authority of the
Chief for the purpose of granting permission to and stating the conditions under
which a person or company may conduct or engage in any operation or act, not
specified in Division 4 or 5 of this article, for which approval of the
Department may be required by this article.	Special School – Any building,
premises, or portion thereof used for education, training, or instruction of
more than six students, 16 years of age or under, for more than eight hours per
week and which is not subject to the provisions of Part 2, Division 9, Chapter
6, Articles 1 and 2 of the Education Code of California.	Special Vessel – Any
pressure vessel, low-pressure tank, or atmospheric tank that requires venting,
insulation, refrigeration, or a combination of these in order to maintain the
operating pressure within the design pressure, and the contents in the liquid
phase at temperatures below ambient.	Specimen Native Shrub – An individual
shrub which is within the definition of “Native Brush” and which is trimmed
up to one-third, its height above ground, and from the vicinity of which has
been removed all dead wood, duff, and combustible litter.	Spray Booth or Spray
Tunnel – A power-ventilated structure to enclose or accommodate a spraying
operation to confine and limit the escape of spray, vapor, and residue, and to
safely conduct or direct them to an exhaust system.	Spraying Area – Any area
in which dangerous quantities of flammable vapor or combustible residue, dust or
deposits are present due to the operating of spraying processes. A spraying area
shall include:	1.	The interior of spray booths, spray rooms or spray
tunnels;	2.	The interior of ducts exhausting from spraying processes;	3.	Any
area in the direct path of spray or any area containing air-suspended
combustible residue, dust, deposits, spray or vapor as a result of spraying
operations.	Spray Room – A room the entire area of which is used as a spray
booth, and which conforms to the applicable requirements of Chapter 9 of the
L.A.M.C. (Building Code).	Stage – A partially enclosed portion of an assembly
occupancy which is designed or used for the presentation of plays,
demonstrations, or other entertainment wherein scenery, drops, or other effects
may be installed or used and where the distance between the top of the
proscenium opening and the ceiling above the stage is more than five
feet.	Standard Cubic Foot of Gas – That volume of gas which, at a temperature
of 70 F. and a pressure of one atmosphere absolute, occupies one cubic
foot.	Standby Power System – That part of an electrical system which, within
60 seconds of failure of the normal electrical supply, is required to be
automatically transferred to, and be energized from an alternate on-site
electrical supply.	Standing Concert Attendance – A standing gathering of
persons, within a place of assemblage, in an area where seating is not provided,
where the principal attraction is the viewing of live, on stage entertainment. 
(This is sometimes inaccurately referred to as festival seating.)  (Added by
Ord. No. 169,944, Eff. 8/20/94.)	Standpipe System – A wet or dry system of
piping, valves, outlets, and related equipment designed to provide water at
specified pressures and installed exclusively for the fighting of fires and
classified as follows:	Class I – A dry standpipe system without a directly
connected water supply and equipped with two and one-half inch outlets for use
by the Fire Department or trained personnel.	Class II – A wet standpipe system
directly connected to a water supply and equipped with one and one-half inch
outlets intended for use by the building occupants.	Class III – A combination
standpipe system directly connected to a water supply and equipped with both one
and one-half inch outlets for use by the building occupants and two and one-half
inch outlets for use by the Fire Department or trained personnel.	Combined – A
system of water piping which serves two and one-half inch hose outlets for use
by the Fire Department and also supplies water to automatic sprinkler
systems.	Street – Any public thoroughfare not less than 16 feet in width which
has been dedicated or deeded to the public for use other than as an alley or
walk, except that where a subdivision has been recorded containing lots which
abut only on an alley or walk, said alley or walk may be considered to be a
street.	Structure – That which is built or constructed, an edifice or building
of any kind, or any piece of work artificially built up or composed parts joined
together in some definite manner.	Surgery – Any area in a hospital, in which
anesthetic agents are used or intended to be used for the anesthetization of a
patient in the course of surgical or obstetrical treatment or examination or
procedure including operating rooms, delivery rooms, emergency rooms and rooms
used for preoperative preparation of a patient.	Tank Car – Any railway car
equipped with a cargo tank mounted thereon, used for the transportation of
commodities by rail.	Tank Semi-Trailer – Any vehicle of the trailer type
equipped with a Cargo Tank mounted thereon so designed and used in connection
with a motor vehicle that some part of its own weight rests upon and is carried
by such motor vehicle.	Tank Trailer – Any vehicle without motive power,
equipped with a Cargo Tank mounted thereon, and constructed so that it can be
drawn by a motor vehicle, with no part of its own weight resting upon the towing
vehicle.	Tank Truck – Any motor vehicle equipped with a cargo tank mounted
thereon.	Tank Vehicle – Any Tank Truck, Tank Trailer, Tank Semi-Trailer or
Aircraft Fuel Servicing Tank Vehicle.	Temporary Geological Exploratory Core Hole
– A seismic test hole or exploratory core hole used or intended to be used
exclusively for geophysical, geological, and other exploratory testing for oil,
natural gas or other hydrocarbon substances to be drilled and abandoned within
30 days from the time of commencement of actual drilling operations unless
otherwise approved for a longer period of time as specified under the provisions
of Division 5 of this article.	Tent – A shelter, canopy, structure, or
enclosure made of fabric or similar pliable material which derives its support
from mechanical means such as poles, ropes, cables, stakes, or similar devices
and used, for 10 or more people. A tent shall not be supported by air or the
contents it protects.	Theater – Any room, hall, auditorium or premises having
a stage designed or used for entertainment and adapted to the presentation of
plays, musicals, operas, pageants, or similar forms of entertainment, such stage
requiring a fire resistive curtain, automatic sprinkler system and automatic
vents.	Total Building Evacuation – Evacuation of all of the occupants of a
building and portions thereof during a single event to a predetermined outside
safe refuge area.  (Added by Ord. No. 180,648, Eff. 6/1/09.)	Toxic Material –
Any material which either directly or indirectly may constitute a hazard to life
or health, either temporary or permanent from exposure by contact, inhalation,
or ingestion. Toxic materials shall be divided into the following
classifications of hazard:	Class 4 – Materials which on very short exposure
could cause death or major residual injury even though prompt medical treatment
is given.	Class 3 – Materials which on short exposure could cause serious
temporary or residual injury even though prompt medical treatment is
given.	Class 2 – Materials which on intense or continued exposure could cause
temporary incapacitation or possible residual injury unless prompt medical
treatment is given.	Class 1 – Materials which on exposure could cause
irritation but only minor residual injury even if no treatment is
given.	Transfer Apparatus – Transfer apparatus shall mean any device or system
of devices including pump, motor, piping, meter, hose and nozzle used for
transferring flammable liquids, combustible liquids, or liquified flammable gas
other than at or in connection with an Auto Fueling Station.	Treated Bale – A
bale of combustible fibers so treated with chemicals, either by impregnating the
fibers or by dipping or spraying the bale, so that it does not present a
flash-fire hazard.	Unstable Material – Any material, other than explosives,
which in the pure state, or as commercially produced, will vigorously
polymerize, decompose, condense, or become self-reactive and undergo other
violent chemical changes including explosion when exposed to heat, friction, or
shock, or in the absence of an inhibitor, or in the presence of contaminants, or
in contact with noncompatible materials. Unstable materials shall be divided
into the following classifications of hazard:	Class 4 – Materials which are
readily capable of detonation or of explosive decomposition or explosive
reaction at normal temperatures and pressures. This class includes materials
which are sensitive to mechanical or localized thermal shock at normal
temperatures and pressures.	Class 3 – Materials which are capable of
detonation or of explosive decomposition or explosive reaction, but which
require a strong initiating source or which must be heated under confinement
before initiation. This class includes materials which are sensitive to thermal
or mechanical shock at raised temperatures and pressures.	Class 2 – Materials
which are normally unstable and readily undergo violent chemical change but do
not detonate. This class includes materials which can undergo chemical change
with rapid release of energy at normal temperatures and pressures, or which can
undergo violent chemical change at raised temperatures  and pressures.	Class 1
– Materials which are normally stable, but which can become unstable at raised
temperatures and pressures.	Upper Flammable Limit – The maximum concentration
of a flammable gas, vapor or dust that will form an ignitable mixture with air
at ambient temperature and atmospheric pressure.	Vapor Pressure – The pounds
per square inch of the vapor when in equilibrium with the liquid which produces
the vapor. Vapor pressure shall be determined in accordance with L.A.F.D.
Standard No. 36.	Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zone – Any area within the
City of Los Angeles that poses a significant threat of fire from adjoining
natural brush hillside areas and which is determined by the following factors:
topography, infrastructure, fire protection, population density, types of
construction, weather, existing fire codes and ordinances, and fire history. 
(Added by Ord. No. 176,943, Eff. 10/5/05.)	Water Reactive Material – Any
material which may produce a violent or dangerous reaction when in contact with
water.	Water Wash Spray Booth – A spray booth equipped with a water-washing
system designed to minimize dust or residues entering exhaust ducts and to
permit the recovery of overspray finishing material.	Weeds – Plants which are
defined as follows:	1.	Plants which bear seeds of a downy or wingy
nature.	2.	Plants which are noxious or dangerous.	3.	Poison oak when the
conditions of its growth are such as to constitute a menace to public
health.	4.	Annual grasses or other flammable vegetation which endangers public
safety by creating a fire hazard.	Welding Cart – An approved assembly
consisting of a frame on which a cylinder of flammable gas and a cylinder of
oxygen or air are attached together with regulators, hose, and torches.	Work
Area – That space within a building occupied by one working person including
the bench, machines, or other operating equipment and the supply of hazardous
materials or plastics which are in process, awaiting process, or finished.
