                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PERMIT REQUIRED. (§ 57.08.03)

  PERMIT REQUIRED.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 172,043, Eff. 7/13/98.)	It shall be the duty of each
on-site manager and the owner of a business, as well as the property owner, to
assure compliance with the following provisions:	A.	Each business that handles
or intends to handle a hazardous material or a mixture containing a hazardous
material in the City which has a quantity at any one time during the reporting
year equal to, or greater than, a total weight of 500 pounds, or a total volume
of 55 gallons, or 200 cubic feet at standard temperature and pressure for a
compressed gas; or exceeds the applicable federal threshold planning quantity
for an Extremely Hazardous Substance specified in Title 40, Code of Federal
Regulations, Part 355, Appendix A; or exceeds the Permit amounts for hazardous
materials in L.A.F.D. Standard No. 68, shall file an application for, and obtain
a Division 14 Unified Program Facility Permit with the proper authorization
listed for the Hazardous Materials Release Response Plan (HMRRP) and Inventory
Program element as required by this division.  Existing unified program
facilities with existing authorizations for other unified program elements,
shall file an application to amend their existing Division 14 Unified Program
Facility Permit to include the HMRRP authorization.  Division 14 Unified
Program Facility Permits with HMRRP authorizations shall be obtained on or
before the first day the business starts handling such substance and shall be
renewed annually.	B.	A Division 14 Unified Program Facility Permit with the
HMRRP authorization shall be valid only for the business designated on the
Permit by the City.  A separate Permit shall be required for each business
location having a separate street address.	C.	The issuance of a Division 14
Unified Program Facility Permit with the HMRRP authorization required by this
division does not authorize or permit the handling of hazardous substances, nor
does it except or exempt the holder from compliance with, or affect in any way
the applicability of, any other federal, state, or local law, rule, or
regulation governing hazardous substances.
