                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PROPERTY ADDRESSES. (§ 57.09.11)

  PROPERTY ADDRESSES.
	(Added by Ord. No. 170,954, Eff. 4/16/96.)	A.	Every person exercising or having
ownership, possession, custody, control, or charge of any building, structure,
parking lot, or premises shall have and maintain the established street address
number thereon upon or near each entrance from a public street and from any
other access way.  The Chief shall have the authority to prescribe the manner
and location of placement of such street address numbers.  “Access way,”
shall include, but not be limited to any alley, waterway, stairway, driveway, or
walkway.	B.	The minimum dimensions of any street address number established on
or after June 1, 1973 shall be as follows:	1.	The height in inches of any number
or letter therein shall be the sum of one-tenth (1/10) of the distance in feet
of the number from the boundary of the property (upon which the building,
structure, or parking lot is situated) abutting the street, plus two (2),
providing that every number shall not be less than four inches in height.	2.	The
overall width of any figure in or comprising the number or letter shall be
one-half (1/2) of its height.	3.	The width of any portion of a figure in or
comprising the number or letter shall be one-tenth (1/10) of its
height.	C.	Design (including shape and style) as well as location of the street
address numbers shall be such that they are legible and easily readable. 
Irrespective of whether the street address number was established before or
after June 1, 1973, the Chief shall have the authority to prescribe a street
address number larger in size than the dimensions stated in Subsection B when it
is determined that due to lighting conditions, building location, shadows,
background, or other reasons, street address numbers of minimum dimensions will
not be easily readable from the street or approach to the entrance.  A street
address number of unusual design or placement may not be employed without prior
written approval of the Chief.
