                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

AUTHORITY TO INSTALL, TEST, AND REQUIRE MAINTENANCE OF FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS
AND EQUIPMENT. (§ 57.01.35)

  AUTHORITY TO INSTALL, TEST, AND REQUIRE MAINTENANCE OF FIRE PROTECTION
SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 170,954, Eff. 4/16/96.)	A.	Installation, alteration, and
major repair of the items listed in this subsection shall be performed under
permit of the Department of Building and Safety when a permit is required by
that Department for such work.	1.	Fire Department communication
systems.	2.	Building communication systems.	3.	Automatic elevators.	4.	Heliports
and emergency helicopter landing facilities.	5.	Emergency power systems.	6.	Fire
escapes.	7.	Private fire hydrants.	8.	Fire assemblies.	9.	Fire protective
signaling systems.	10.	Pilot lights and warning lights for heat- producing
equipment.	11.	Refrigerant discharge systems.	12.	Smoke detectors.	13.	Emergency
smoke control systems.	14.	Automatic sprinkler systems.	15.	Standpipe
systems.	16.	Gas detection systems.	B.	Installation, alteration, maintenance,
and repair of the items listed in this subsection shall be performed under the
provisions of Section 57.05.20 of this article and  the supervision and control
of the Chief.	1.	Central station signaling systems.	2.	Fire protective signaling
systems.	3.	Appliances, equipment, and devices used for storing, handling,
processing, producing, transporting, or dispensing of hazardous
materials.	4.	Liquefied flammable gas cylinders, hose, vaporizers, heat
exchangers, pumps, and pertinent equipment.	5.	Portable fire
extinguishers.	6.	Automatic fire extinguishing systems except automatic
sprinkler systems as set forth in Subsection A.	7.	Spray booths, spray tunnels,
dip tanks, drying ovens, flow coaters, powder coating apparatus and
electrostatic painting equipment.	8.	Gas Detection Systems.  (Added by Ord. No.
179,905, Eff. 6/27/08.)	C.	If at any time the items listed in Subsections A and
B of this section are not operational, the Chief shall have the authority to
issue notices to the owner of the building or premises where said items are
located, or such other person having control of said building or premises, to
make said items operational.	The Chief has the authority to require that
periodic inspections and tests be made to determine whether the items listed in
Subsections A and B of this section, including any water supply, are
operational.  All such inspections and tests shall be made at intervals to be
determined by the Chief.  Tests at shorter intervals  may be required when an
inspection by the Chief indicates there is a substantial reason to believe that
the system or device would fail to operate properly in an emergency.	The
inspections and test shall be made in accordance with the rules and regulations
established by the Board.	D.	No person owning or having charge or control of any
items listed in Subsections A and B of this section shall maintain said items in
defective condition or in a state of disrepair, or install or maintain such in a
manner that endangers life or creates a fire or explosion hazard.  No person
shall violate an order of the Chief to require periodic inspections as required
by Subsection C.	E.	The failure of any person owning or having control of any
items in Subsections A and B of this section to properly maintain said items at
all times, or the failure of any person owning or having control of those items
to conduct a test to determine that the systems referred to in A and B are
operational, or the failure to obey any order of the Chief issued pursuant to
this section, subjects that person to a penalty of a mandatory minimum fine of
$500.00, up to and not exceeding $1,000.00 or by imprisonment in the County Jail
for a period of not more than six (6) months, or by both such fine and
imprisonment.  Each person shall be guilty of a separate offense for each and
every day, or portion thereof, during which a violation of any provision of this
code is committed, continued or permitted by such person and shall be punishable
accordingly.
