                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PERMITS – POWER OF REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION. (§ 57.04.11)

  PERMITS – POWER OF REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION.	A.	By the Chief –
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this article to the contrary, the Chief
shall have the power to revoke or suspend any Permit, at his discretion, upon
proof to the satisfaction of the Chief of violation by the permittee of the
provisions of this article, the Rules and Regulations of this Department adopted
under the authority of Section 57.01.34 of this article, or the terms and
conditions of any Permit as may be specified under the authority of Section
57.04.05 of this article. Such revocation or suspension shall be in accordance
with the provisions of Division 3 of this article.	B.	By the Office of Finance
(Amended by Ord. No. 173,276, Eff. 6/25/00, Oper. 7/1/00.) – Whenever any
person fails to comply with any provisions of this division pertaining to
Contractor’s Liability Insurance or the payment of Permit fees, the Office of
Finance upon hearing, after giving such person ten days notice in writing,
specifying the time and place of hearing and requiring the person to show cause
why the Permit should not be revoked for such failure, may revoke or suspend any
one or more of the Permits held by such person. The notice shall be served in
the same manner as notices are served under Section 21.16 of the
L.A.M.C.	C.	Operation After Revocation or Suspension – It shall be unlawful
for any person to engage in any business, operation, or occupation, or use any
premises, after the Permit issued therefor has been suspended or revoked
pursuant to the provisions of this division unless the Permit has been
reinstated or a new Permit issued. Any person who engages in any business,
operation, or occupation, or uses any premises, after the Permit issued therefor
has been suspended or revoked pursuant to the provisions of this section, and
before such suspended Permit has been reinstated or a new Permit issued, shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor.
