                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

AUTHORITY TO REQUIRE FIRE SAFETY OFFICERS. (§ 57.01.32)

  AUTHORITY TO REQUIRE FIRE SAFETY OFFICERS.	A.	Whenever the Chief determines
it is essential for the safeguarding of life and property from fire, explosion,
panic, or other hazardous conditions which may arise in the temporary use of an
occupancy and/or premises, he may require one or more Fire Safety Officers to be
present during the activity. No such use of an occupancy or premises shall
proceed without a timely request to the Chief, as provided in this section, for
assignment of a Fire Safety Officer.	1.	Whenever the Chief determines that a
Uniformed Fire Safety Officer shall be present, the Department shall collect a
fee established by the Board. Said fee shall constitute the total sum payable
from any source for the services of that person. The Board, with the concurrence
of the Director of the Office of Administrative and Research Services  (Amended
by Ord. No. 173,363, Eff. 7/29/00, Oper. 7/1/00.), shall determine on a regular
basis the verifiable cost of the City for the Fire Safety Officer. These costs
shall be the actual total cost, as determined by the Board.	2.	Whenever the
Chief determines that a Certified Fire Safety Officer is required, payment for
the services of said officer shall be paid to the officer by the person engaging
the services of the Certified Fire Safety Officer. For each such Certified Fire
Safety Officer assigned by the Chief, the hourly rate shall be the rate
established in the existing Los Angeles City Fire Department Memorandum of
Understanding for Fire Inspector 1. Said fee shall constitute the total sum
payable from any source for the services of that person. Payment for a Certified
Fire Safety Officer shall be based on the following requirements:	a.	Four-hour
minimum work day.  (Amended by Ord. No  168,304, Eff. 11/28/92.)	b.	Time and
one-half after eight hours.	c.	Time and one-half for Saturdays and
Sundays.	d.	Time and one-half for holidays identified by the existing Los
Angeles City Fire Department Memorandum of Understanding for Fire Inspector
1.	B.	Assignment of a Fire Safety Officer cannot be assured unless a request is
made to the office of the Bureau of Fire Prevention and Public Safety during
normal business hours and not less than 24 hours in advance of need. For weekend
assignment or when a holiday will intervene, the request shall be made 48
hours’ in advance.
