                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

CERTIFICATES OF FITNESS REQUIRED. (§ 57.06.01)

  CERTIFICATES OF FITNESS REQUIRED.	A.	No person shall, without a valid
Certificate of Registration as required by Title 19, California Administrative
Code, or Certificate Fitness as required by this article, recharge or service
any portable fire extinguisher.	A Certificate of Fitness to recharge or service
portable fire extinguishers shall only be required of those employees of firms
or corporations who are not certified by the State Fire Marshal and who test or
service portable fire extinguishers at the place of business.	B.	No person
shall, without a valid Certificate of Fitness as required by this article,
conduct any blasting operation.	C.	No person shall, without a valid Certificate
of Fitness as required by this article, conduct any test or certify the
following fire protection equipment or systems:	1.	Automatic sprinkler
systems	2.	Class I standpipe systems	3.	Class II standpipe systems	4.	Class III
standpipe systems	5.	Combined standpipe systems	6.	Automatic
elevators	7.	Automatic fire assemblies	8.	Emergency power systems (generators
and battery systems)	9.	Fire escapes
	10.	Fire protective signaling  systems (alarm, notification, and communication
systems)	11.	Fire pumps	12.	Smoke control systems	EXCEPTIONS:	1.	The Chief may
allow persons who are employees of the firm or corporation where the fire
protection equipment or systems are to be tested to perform required tests
provided such tests are performed in accordance with Regulation No. 4,
“Testing of Fire Protection Equipment.”	2.	Members of the Department of
Building and Safety.	3.	Uniformed members of the Fire Department.	D.	No person
other than a uniformed member of the Department assigned to the Bureau of Fire
Prevention and Public Safety shall without a valid Certificate of Fitness as
required by this article, perform as a fire safety officer.	E.	No person shall,
without a valid Certificate of Fitness as required by this article, perform as a
health care facility instructor.	EXCEPTION:	Fire Safety Director representing
building management.	F.	No person shall, without a valid Certificate of Fitness
as required by this article, perform as a high-rise life/safety
service.	EXCEPTION:	Fire Safety Director representing building management.	G.	No
person shall, without a valid Certificate of Fitness as required by this
article, test or certify any gas detection system.  (Added by Ord. No. 179,905,
Eff. 6/27/08.)
