                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

FIRE DEPARTMENT ACCESS. (§ 57.09.03)

  FIRE DEPARTMENT ACCESS.	A.	Any person owning or having control of any
facility, structure, group of structures or premises shall provide and maintain
Fire Department access in accordance with provisions of this section.	B.	If any
portion of the first story exterior walls of any building structure is more than
150 feet from the edge of the roadway of an approved street, an approved fire
lane shall be provided so that such portion is within 150 feet of the edge of
the fire lane.	EXCEPTION:	An entrance to any dwelling unit or guest room shall
not be more than 150 feet in distance of horizontal travel from the edge of
roadway of an improved street or approved fire lane.	C.	When required access is
provided by an improved street, fire lane or combination of both which results
in a deadend in access of 700 feet in length from the nearest cross street, at
least one additional ingress-egress roadway shall be provided in such a manner
that an alternative means of ingress-egress is accomplished.	D.	Where fire lanes
are required under Subsection B of this section to provide access for Fire
Department emergency vehicles, and such fire lanes are other than access roads,
they shall be granted to the City without cost as easements from a public street
or alley to the required terminal point. Provided, however, that the easement
requirement may be waived, unless otherwise required by the General Plan of the
City of Los Angeles, where the Department determines that the acquisition of an
easement is not necessary for the protection of the public safety and welfare.
Fire lanes shall be designated and maintained as follows:	1.	Fire lanes shall
have a minimum clear roadway width of 20 feet when no parking is allowed on
either side.	2.	Those portions of a fire lane which must accommodate the
operation of Fire Department aerial ladder apparatus shall have a minimum clear
roadway width of 28 feet when no parking is allowed on either side.	3.	Those
portions of a fire lane 30 feet on either side of a private fire hydrant shall
have a minimum clear roadway width of 28 feet.  No parking shall be permitted
within those portions of the roadway which are within 30 feet of and on the same
side of the roadway as a private fire hydrant.  (Amended by Ord. No. 167,326,
Eff. 11/16/91.)	4.	Where parking is allowed on only one side of a required fire
lane parking shall be on the same side of the roadway as the hydrants.	5.	Where
parallel parking is allowed on either side of a fire lane, the roadway width
shall be increased eight feet for each parking lane.  (Amended by Ord. No.
167,326, Eff. 11/16/91.)	6.	Where access requires accommodate of Fire Department
apparatus, overhead clearance shall not be less than 14 feet.	7.	Deadend fire
lanes shall terminate in cul-de-sacs or other approved turning areas consistent
with the Department of Public Works Standard Street Dimension Plan D-22549. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 167,326, Eff. 11/16/91.)	8.	Fire lanes shall be paved to
the City Engineer’s standards for public alleys.
