                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

NONCOMPLIANCE INSPECTION FEES.* (§ 57.03.05)

  NONCOMPLIANCE INSPECTION FEES.*
	(Added by Ord. NO. 170,976, Eff. 5/4/96.)	(A)	Authority to Collect A
Noncompliance Fee.  If in the course of enforcing any federal, state, or local
law or ordinance, the Department issues a Fire/Life Safety Order to a person or
persons and the person fails to comply with that order, the Department shall
collect a Noncompliance Fee as set forth below.	(B)	Noncompliance Fee.  The
Noncompliance Fee shall be the hourly Inspector’s salary rate multiplied by
the number of hours expended in reinspections after the Fire/Life Safety Order
has been issued (2 hours minimum) and shall be paid by the owner. The first
reinspection after the Fire/Life Safety Order has been issued will not be
charged to the owner if the property is in compliance at the time of that
reinspection.  If the property is not in compliance at the time of the first
reinspection, then time involved in all subsequent reinspections shall be
chargeable as a Noncompliance Fee.	(C)	Billing of Noncompliance Fee.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 175,596, Eff. 12/7/03.)  If multiple reinspections of a violation
are required in order to gain compliance, the Department shall cause a
Noncompliance Fee billing to be sent to the property owner, either at the time
the Department finally gains compliance, or when the Department seeks the filing
of criminal charges, unless a timely appeal has been filed.	The Fire/Life Safety
Order shall:  (1) state that the owner is required to abate the hazard; (2) set
forth a reasonable time in which to comply with the law; (3) state that if the
hazard is not abated by the date specified on the notice as the compliance date,
the owner shall be responsible for Noncompliance Fees, including administrative
costs; and (4) state that these costs may ultimately result in a lien against
the property.	Billing of the fees shall be by United States mail, in a sealed
envelope with postage paid, addressed to the last known address of the person
served with the Fire/Life Safety Violation.  Service of the bill shall be
deemed to have been completed at the time of deposit with the United States
Postal Service.  The person or persons served shall remit the Noncompliance Fee
to the Department within 30 days after the date of service.  Payment of the
Noncompliance Fees may be made by cash, check, certified check, cashier’s
check, money order, or credit card.	If the property owner fails to make the
payment in a timely manner, then the Department may demand payment of the
Noncompliance Fee from the person or persons served for the property involved,
prior to the issuance of any permit, certification, or approval to the person or
persons served, pursuant to the authority granted by Section 57.03.11 A. of this
Code.	If the property owner fails to pay a Noncompliance Fee imposed within 30
days, the Department shall send a second notice in the same manner described
above.  If the property owner fails to pay the fee within ten days after the
second notice was mailed, a collection fee equal to 50 percent of the original
Noncompliance Fee shall be imposed.  This additional fee shall become part of
the debt immediately due and owing to the Los Angeles City Fire Department. 
The City shall have the right to bring legal action in any court of competent
jurisdiction to enforce the order and collect the amount of the fees.	In
addition to any other remedy provided by law, the City may collect any judgment,
fee, cost, or charge, including any permit fees, fines, late charges, or
interest, incurred in relation to the provisions of this section as provided in
Los Angeles Administrative Code Sections 7.35.1 through 7.35.8.	Nothing in this
section regarding the imposition of Noncompliance Fees shall prevent the
Department from pursuing other legal action, including but not limited to the
filing of criminal charges in order to gain compliance with the Fire
Code.	(D)	Procedures for Appeals to the Board of Fire Commissioners.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 175,596, Eff. 12/7/03.)  Any property owner upon whom a
Noncompliance Fee has been imposed may appeal to the Board of Fire
Commissioners.	1.	The appeal shall be made in writing to the Board of Fire
Commissioners, upon appropriate forms provided by the Department, within 15 days
of the date of service of the billing.	2.	An appeal processing fee of $50.00
shall be paid by the appellant prior to the Board processing the appeal and
making a determination.	3.	Additional inspections may be required in order to
determine compliance with the Fire/Life Safety Order for purposes of preparing a
Department presentation to the Board, or designee, for determination on
appeal.  The fee for these inspections shall be the hourly Inspector’s salary
rate multiplied by the number of hours expended (two hours minimum) in the
reinspection process, and shall be paid by the appellant.	4.	In any appeal, the
appellant making the request shall cause to be made, at the appellant’s own
expense, any tests required by the Board to substantiate the claims.	5.	The
Board may hold any hearings it deems appropriate to consider the appeal.  The
Board of Fire Commissioners or its designee shall conduct the hearings.	6.	The
Board shall determine whether to modify or rescind the fees, or to impose and
require the owner to pay the fees.  This determination shall be based on
evidence in the record of any error on the part of the Fire Department or
extreme hardship on the part of the property owner.  This determination by the
Board shall be final.	*	Under uncodified Ordinance No. 172,699, effective
8/15/99, the fees and charges imposed pursuant to Section 57.03.05 of the Los
Angeles Municipal Code may be collected on the County tax rolls.
