                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

REQUIREMENTS FOR BUSINESS PLANS AND INVENTORIES. (§ 57.08.06)

  REQUIREMENTS FOR BUSINESS PLANS AND INVENTORIES.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 172,043, Eff. 7/13/98.)	A.	In addition to the requirements
of Section 57.14.04. of this Code, each business shall prepare and submit a
business plan as required by this division or the Act.	B.	Business plans shall
include, but not be limited to, the following information:	1.	Inventory.  The
annual inventory form shall include, but shall not be limited to, information on
all of the following which are handled in quantities equal to or greater than
the quantities specified in this division or the Act:	(a)	A listing of the
chemical name and common names of every hazardous substance or chemical product
handled by the business.	(b)	The category of waste, including the general
chemical and mineral composition of the waste listed by probable maximum and
minimum concentrations, of every hazardous waste handled by the business.	(c)	A
listing of the chemical name and common names of every other hazardous material
or mixture containing a hazardous material handled by the business which is not
otherwise listed pursuant to Paragraph (a) or (b).	(d)	The maximum amount of
each hazardous material or mixture containing a hazardous material disclosed in
Paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) which is handled at any one time by the business
over the course of the year.	(e)	Sufficient information on how and where the
hazardous materials disclosed  in Paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) are handled by
the business to allow fire, safety, health, and other appropriate personnel to
prepare adequate emergency responses to potential releases of the hazardous
materials.	(f)	The SIC Code number of the business if applicable.	(g)	The name
and phone number of the person representing the business and able to assist
emergency personnel in the event of an emergency involving the business during
nonbusiness hours.	2.	Emergency Response Plans and Procedures.  The business
plan shall include the following emergency response procedures for a release or
threatened release of hazardous materials, which shall be reasonable and
appropriate for the size and nature of the business, the nature of the damage
potential of the hazardous materials handled, and the proximity of the business
to residential areas and other populations:	(a)	immediate notification of:
	(i)	local emergency response personnel;	(ii)	the Department and the State
OES;	(iii)	persons within the facility who are necessary to respond to an
incident;	(b)	identification of local emergency medical assistance appropriate
for potential accident scenarios;	(c)	mitigation, prevention, or abatement of
hazards to persons, property, or the environment;	(d)	immediate notification and
evacuation of the facility; and	(e)	identification of areas of the facility and
mechanical or other systems that require immediate inspection or isolation
because of their vulnerability to earthquake related ground
motion.	3.	Training.	(a)	The business plan shall include a training program
which shall be reasonable and appropriate for the size of the business and the
nature of the hazardous materials handled.  The training program shall take
into consideration the responsibilities of the employees to be trained.  The
training program shall, at a minimum, include:	(i)	methods for safe handling of
hazardous materials;	(ii)	procedures for coordination with local emergency
response organizations;	(iii)	use of emergency response equipment and supplies
under the control of the handler, and	(b)	The business plan shall include
provisions for ensuring that appropriate personnel receive initial and refresher
training.	C.	Businesses which are required to comply with the Permit
requirements set forth in Paragraph A. of Section 57.08.03 of this division
shall be required to submit a hazardous materials inventory as indicated in
Subdivision (1) of Subsection B. of this section.	D.	Businesses which are
required to comply with the Permit requirements set forth in Paragraph A. of
Section 57.08.03 of this division may be required to submit a business plan as
indicated in Subsection B. of this section.	E.	Initial submission of the
Business Plan shall be within 30 days of notification by the Department or
within 30 days of the establishment of the business, whichever is
sooner.	F.	When it is determined by the Department that a business is subject to
requirements of this section or the provisions of the Act, the business shall be
so notified by the Department. Upon notification, the business shall transmit to
the Department a complete business plan and any other documentation required
under the Act, as directed by the Department, in a format prescribed by the
Department, for review and approval by the Department. The handler shall review
the business plan as required by the Act, and shall certify to the Department
that the review was made and that any necessary changes were made to the plan. 
Whenever a substantial change in the handler’s operations occurs which
requires a modification of its business plan, the handler shall submit a copy of
the plan revisions to the Department within 30 days of the operational change.
