                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PERMITS REQUIRED. (§ 57.10.04)

  PERMITS REQUIRED.
	(Added by Ord. No. 168,176, Eff. 9/20/92.)	A.	A Fire Department Division 5
Permit is required to conduct any asbestos removal which reduces the fire
resistiveness of any building, or results in the removal of 100 square feet or
more of Asbestos Containing Material (ACM).  Residential dwelling structures of
four units or less shall be exempt.  For the purpose of this regulation, ACM
which is expressed in linear feet shall be computed and reported as a total
equivalent surface area in square feet.	B.	The licensed contractor performing
the asbestos abatement shall obtain the required permit and shall pay all
required fees.	C.	A permit for asbestos abatement is good for 180 days from the
date of issuance and only for the specific project for which it is issued.  
Any project which is not completed within that period of time shall require a
new permit.	D.	Permit fees shall be collected by the Fire Department upon
application for a permit.	E.	Three 8-1/2&#038;″ x 11&#038;″ copies of a plot
plan depicting all areas undergoing abatement, drawn to scale, shall be provided
by the contractor at the time of permit application.	The following shall be
included in the drawing:	1.	Each drawing must show the entire floor area, with
north indicated at the top, and clearly indicate the area(s) undergoing
abatement by outlining in red.	2.	All entrances and exits for each containment
area must be shown.  Any exit which is blocked by the containment shall have
the word “BLOCKED” printed next to it.	3.	Location of each negative air
machine shall be indicated.	4.	Location of the negative air machine emergency
shut-off switch shall be shown.	5.	Location of emergency Fire Department
protective entry clothing shall be shown.	F.	Permits for asbestos abatement
shall be obtained at the Engineering counter of the Bureau of Fire Prevention
and Public Safety at least ten-calendar days prior to the beginning of the job.
