                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEFINITIONS. (§ 57.14.02)

  DEFINITIONS.
	(Added by Ord. No. 172,043, Eff. 7/13/98.)	The following words or group of
words, when used in this division, shall be defined as follows:	Above Ground
Storage Tanks Spill Prevention, Control, and Countermeasure (SPCC) Plan –
Includes the requirements of Health and Safety Code Division 20, Chapter 6.67,
Section 25270.5(c).	Authorization – An acknowledgment of compliance for an
individual Unified Program element.	Business – Any employer, self-employed
individual, trust, firm, joint stock company, corporation, partnership,
association, institution or public agency. The term business shall include both
for profit and nonprofit enterprises.	California Accidental Release Prevention
Program (CalARP) – Includes the requirements of Health and Safety Code
Division 20, Chapter 6.95, Article 2.	Certified Unified Program Agency or CUPA
– The agency certified by the secretary to implement the unified program
specified in the Health and Safety Code, Division 20, Chapter 6.11 within a
jurisdiction.	Hazardous Materials Release Response Plan (HMRRP) and Inventory
Program – Includes the requirements of Health and Safety Code Division 20,
Chapter 6.95, Article 1 (generally supplemented by Title 19 of the California
Code of Regulations, Sections 2620 – 2732), and any requirements of Division 8
of this Code.	Hazardous Waste Generators and Hazardous Waste Onsite Treatment
Programs – Includes the Hazardous Waste Generator (GEN) Program, and the
Onsite Tiered Permitting activities authorized under the permit-by-rule (PBR),
conditionally authorized (CA), and conditionally exempt (CE) tiers – Health
and Safety Code Division 20, Chapter 6.5 (generally supplemented by Division
4.5, Title 22 of the California Code of Regulations).	Participating Agency or PA
– An agency which has a written agreement with the CUPA pursuant to the Health
and Safety Code, Subdivision (d) of Section 25404.3, and is approved by the
secretary, to implement or enforce one or more of the unified program elements
specified in Subdivision (c), in accordance with the provisions of  Health and
Safety Code Sections 25404.1 and 25404.2.	Underground Storage Tank (UST) Program
– Includes the requirements of Health and Safety Code Division 20, Chapter
6.7, excluding Section 25297.1, and any requirements of Division 31 of this Code
as they pertain to underground storage tanks.	Unified Program Facility – All
contiguous land and structures, other appurtenances, and improvements on the
land which are subject to the requirements listed in Subdivision (c) of Section
25404 of the California Health and Safety Code, the requirements of Division 8
of this Code, or the requirements of Division 31 of this Code as they relate to
underground storage tanks.	Unified Program Facility Permit – A  Permit issued
pursuant to the Health and Safety Code Division 20, Chapter 6.11.  For the
purposes of this division, a unified program facility Permit encompasses Permit
or authorization requirements only as specified for a unified program
facility.	Uniform Fire Code Hazardous Materials Management Plan (HMMP) –
Includes the requirements of  the Uniform Fire Code, as adopted by the State
Fire Marshal pursuant to Section 13143.9 of the Health and Safety Code,
concerning hazardous materials management plans and inventories for hazardous
materials.
