                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ELEVATOR SYSTEM. (§ 57.118.05)

  ELEVATOR SYSTEM.	A.	General Requirements:	1.	Construction: Except for the
designated main floor, all elevators shall open into elevator vestibules which
are constructed with walls, floors, and ceilings having a fire-resistive rating
of not less than one hour.	2.	Vestibule Openings:   All vestibule openings
other than those for elevator doors and stairway enclosures shall be protected
with automatic-closing fire assemblies having not less than a 45-minute
fire-resistive rating, actuated by “combustion products” type smoke
detectors. (Amended by Ord. No. 167,326, Eff. 11/16/91.)	3.	Smoke Detector: 
(Amended by Ord. No. 167,326, Eff. 11/16/91.)  Each elevator vestibule shall be
provided with an approved smoke detector located on the lobby ceiling.  The
elevator controls shall be designed so that the activation of a lobby smoke
detector will cause all elevators serving that landing or floor to return
non-stop to the designated main floor and be under manual control
only.	Elevators with an alternate floor recall feature shall also have an
approved smoke detector in the designated main floor elevator lobby. 
Activation of this smoke detector would recall the elevator to an alternate
floor designated by the Chief.	4.	Elevator Keys: There shall be provided for
Fire Department use in case of any emergency, a key for the main floor switch
and for each fire control elevator and emergency elevator. These keys shall be
readily accessible and in a location approved by the Chief.	5.	Sign: A permanent
sign shall be installed adjacent to the elevator call station on each floor
reading “IN CASE OF FIRE USE STAIRWAY FOR EXIT. DO NOT USE
ELEVATOR.”	B.	Fire Control Elevator: At least one elevator in each bank of
elevators shall be available for fire emergency service and shall have its
controls designed so that key switches located in the building control station
will recall said elevator or elevators to the designated main floor.  The
elevator or elevators shall be interconnected with the standby power.  This
standby power shall be transferable to any other elevator in the bank and shall
be capable of operating the elevator with a full load.	C.	Emergency Elevator: At
least one elevator car serving all building levels shall be made available for
emergency use and shall contain the following:	1.	A minimum inside car platform
of four feet three inches deep by six feet eight inches wide with a minimum
clear opening width of 42 inches, unless otherwise designed and approved to
provide equivalent utility to accommodate an ambulance stretcher having a
minimum size of 22 inches by 78 inches in its horizontal position.	2.	The
elevator shall be subject to control from the building control station.	3.	The
elevator shall be interconnected with the standby power system.	4.	The elevator
shall be identified with a permanent sign installed adjacent to the elevator
control panel in the building control station.	D.	Permit: Installation,
alteration, and major repair of the items listed in Subsections A, B, and C of
this section shall be performed under Permit of the Department of Building and
Safety, when such Permit is required.	E.	Special Requirements: Except as
provided herein, elevators shall conform to the requirements of Article 51, Part
2, Title 24, C.A.C.
