                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

GENERAL REQUIREMENTS. (§ 57.122.03)

  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.	A.	Approval of Equipment and Systems:  All devices,
combination of devices, and other equipment used or installed in any fire
protective signaling system shall be listed by the State Fire Marshal and the
systems shall be approved by the Chief.  Equipment, devices, and materials
shall also comply with Chapter 9 of the L.A.M.C. (Electrical
Code).	B.	Prohibitions:  (Amended by Ord. No. 170,954, Eff. 4/16/96.)  The
following shall not be approved as a part of a fire protective signaling
system:	1.	Municipal fire protective signaling systems.	2.	Central station
signaling systems.	3.	Auxiliary or accessory equipment including but not limited
to security alarms, recording or other nonfire related
equipment.	4.	Telephones.	5.	Devices which automatically retransmit signals or
taped communications of any kind directly to the Fire Department and which are
commonly referred to as “dialers.”	6.	Auxiliary fire protective signaling
systems or auxiliary event recording equipment.	7.	Nonfire related circuits and
equipment of computers used in fire protective signaling systems.	8.	Proprietary
protective signaling systems receiving and transmitting equipment such as an
installation which serves contiguous and noncontiguous properties under one
ownership located at the protected property.	EXCEPTION:	Systems and/or equipment
specified in item Nos. 2, 3, 6, 7, and 8 above may be connected to fire
protective signaling systems if they are so designed and arranged that:	1.	The
electrical design of the equipment or systems shall not be integral to the
internal circuitry of the fire protective signaling systems, and;	2.	Equipment
and systems shall be served by a power supply or circuit independent of the
power supply or circuit necessary for the function of the fire protective
signaling systems, and;	3.	Equipment and systems shall be interconnected to the
fire protective signaling systems by relays or switching devices which will
provide electrical isolation from the system or device to prevent interference
or interruption of the normal or intended operation of the fire protective
signaling systems.	4.	Water flow and tamper switches may be connected to a
listed dual function fire alarm and security panel that is being monitored by an
approved central station company (Division 5 Permit is required).  Water flow
and tamper switches shall transmit an alarm signal that is distinguishable from
the security alarm signal at the central station.	C.	Approval of Plans:  The
Chief shall review and approve all plans for fire protective signaling
systems.  Upon approval, one complete set shall be retained by the Department.
Plans shall include, but not be limited to the following:	1.	Floor plans showing
the location of all fire protective signaling systems and all other information
necessary to determine proper initiating and signaling device
coverage.	2.	Electrical schematics showing the fire protective signaling system
and all other information necessary to determine the correct methods of
installation.  Prior to the commencement of installation, the manufacturer and
State Fire Marshal listing shall be included for all components of the
system.	3.	Written sequence of operation describing, in detail, what is to occur
upon activation of a system or device and how the system or device interfaces
with other systems. Included in this written sequence of operation shall be all
other information necessary to determine the operation which would be required
for the type of occupancy.	4.	Written test procedures giving a step-by-step
explanation of the methods to be used for testing the system or
devices.	D.	Installation: Fire protective signaling systems shall be installed
in accordance with the approved plans.	E.	Power Supply: Every fire protective
signaling system shall be supplied with electrical power in accordance with
Chapter 9 of the L.A.M.C. (Electrical Code).	F.	Wiring: The wiring used for fire
protective signaling systems shall be in conformance with Chapter 9 of the
L.A.M.C. (Electrical Code).	EXCEPTION:	Exposed conductors or cables shall not be
permitted.	G.	Control Panel: Every fire protective signaling system shall be
equipped with an approved control panel containing the necessary relays,
connectors, switches, and other similar equipment, for the proper operation of
the system.	H.	Detectors: Detectors shall comply with all the provisions of this
subsection.	1.	All detecting devices for fire protective signaling systems shall
be automatic devices actuated by heat, smoke, flame, or by sprinkler system
waterflow.	2.	Smoke detectors shall be installed in occupancies containing
sleeping areas.  The number and location of detectors shall be in accordance
with Chapter 9 of the L.A.M.C. (Building Code).	3.	Fixed temperature elements of
heat-activated detectors installed in dwelling units shall not have a
temperature rating in excess of 140° F.	EXCEPTION:	Attic areas and high
temperature rooms, heater rooms, and rooms of similar use.	4.	Detectors shall be
installed in accordance with the spacing and area coverage for which they are
designed. Smoke detectors shall be located on the ceiling not less than six
inches from a sidewall to the near edge, or wall mounted between six inches and
12 inches down from the ceiling to the top of the detector.  On smooth
ceilings, a spacing of 30 feet between smoke detectors may be used as a guide
where total coverage is required.	I.	Alarm: The alarm sounding devices shall be
capable of sounding the alarm at a level of 10 decibels above ambient noise
level measured four feet above the floor and shall be clearly heard at all
required locations.  Every alarm signaling device within an occupancy shall be
of the same basic type (bells, horns, or speakers) throughout the
facility.	EXCEPTION:	Dwelling unit sounding devices may be of a different type
with the approval of the Chief.	J.	Alarm Silence Switch: When an alarm silence
switch is provided it shall be located inside of a locked control panel or be
actuated by a key-locking type switch.  A metal sign having the following
wording shall be attached to the panel:	“ALARM SILENCING SWITCH SHALL ONLY BE
OPERATED WITH  PERMISSION OF THE FIRE DEPARTMENT.”	An alarm silence switch
that is left in the “SILENCE” position shall operate a visual alarm silence
indicator and cause a trouble signal to sound until the switch is restored to
normal.	K.	Trouble Signal: Every electrical system shall be provided with an
audio/visual, trouble-indicating device that will be activated when the system
detects a supervised malfunction.	A trouble signal shall be activated upon the
occurrence of a break or ground in the wiring circuit which would indicate a
malfunction in the operation of the system and/or indicate that the system is
being operated on other than primary power.	“TROUBLE” initiating contacts
such as integral trouble relays of smoke detectors and sprinkler system valve
supervisory switches shall not inhibit an alarm condition from any fire alarm
initiating device.	L.	Supervision: Manual and automatic alarm initiation devices
shall be installed on supervised circuits.  Circuit wiring shall be supervised
to the principal point of annunciation.  The principal point of annunciation
shall be an accessible location designated by the Chief.	M.	Annunciation: Fire
protective signaling systems shall be divided into zones to assist in
determination of the fire location.  The annunciation of all zones and device
identification shall be on electrically supervised circuits to the principal
point of annunciation.	Alarm and trouble signals shall be annunciated in the
main control panel by means of an audible signal and a visual display.  Such
annunciation shall indicate the building, floor, zone, or other designated area
from which the alarm or trouble signal originated.  For purposes of
annunciation, zoning shall be in accordance with the following:	1.	When the fire
protective signaling system serves more than one building, each building shall
be considered as a separate zone.	2.	Each floor of a building shall be
considered as a separate zone.	3.	Each section of floor of a building that is
separated by area separation walls or by horizontal exits shall be considered as
a separate zone.	4.	Annunciation shall be further divided into zones wherever
otherwise deemed necessary by the Chief.	When required by this division, zone
identification of fire alarm initiating devices such as manual pull stations,
corridor smoke detectors, elevator lobby smoke detectors, HVAC smoke detectors,
waterflow switches, etc., shall be indicated on electrically supervised circuits
at the principal point of annunciation.
