                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR FIRE ALARM SYSTEMS BY OCCUPANCY. (§ 57.122.08)

  SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR FIRE ALARM SYSTEMS BY OCCUPANCY.	The following
occupancies shall be equipped with an approved fire alarm system.	A.	Group D
Occupancies:	1.	Every building or structure housing more than 6 guests in a
Group D, Division 3 Occupancy shall have installed an automatic fire alarm
system.  A manual pull station fire alarm system shall also be provided in
accordance with this division.	EXCEPTIONS:	1.	When an approved automatic
sprinkler system is installed, a separate fire alarm system, as specified in
Section 57.122.08, A-3, need not be installed; provided the sprinkler system has
audible signaling devices for the alerting of staff or attendants which will
actuate upon operation of the sprinkler system, and an approved manual pull
station is installed.	2.	When an entire facility is used for the housing of
persons, none of whom is classified as nonambulatory, the buildings or
structures comprising such facility shall be exempt from the provisions of this
subsection relating to the installation of an automatic fire alarm system, but
shall not be exempt from the installation of a manual pull station fire alarm
system.	2.	Manual Pull Station Fire Alarm System:	In Group D, Division 1
Occupancies the manual pull station fire alarm system shall be of a type for the
alerting of staff and attendants.	In Group D, Division 3 Occupancies such system
shall be of a type for the alerting of all occupants.	3.	Automatic fire alarm
systems required by this section shall be of a type which will respond to
products of combustion other than heat.	EXCEPTION:	Heat detectors may be used in
closets, unusable under-floor areas, storage rooms, bathrooms, attached garages,
attics, return air plenums, laundry rooms, and rooms of similar use.	4.	Every
new or existing Group D Occupancy or building which provides 24-hour care for
six or fewer persons shall have approved and listed smoke detectors installed in
every sleeping area, and in corridors or passageways serving sleeping areas. 
An additional detector shall be mounted on the ceiling directly above any
interior stairway.	Detectors shall be mounted on the ceiling or wall at a point
centrally located in the corridor or area giving access to rooms used for
sleeping purposes.  Detectors shall be located as specified in Section
57.122.03, H.	Care shall be exercised to insure that installation will not
interfere with the operating characteristics of the detectors when activated. 
Detectors shall provide an alarm audible in the sleeping area.  In occupancies
housing nonambulatory persons, staff and attendants shall be provided and housed
or located in such a manner that such supervisory personnel will also be alerted
upon activation of any detector required by this section.	EXCEPTION:	Occupancies
or buildings which are protected by an approved automatic sprinkler system
throughout.	B.	Group E Occupancies:	1.	General:  Every school building
regardless of occupancy classification shall be provided with a dependable
method of sounding an alarm of fire in accordance with the provisions for a
local alarm.	EXCEPTION:	A one-room classroom building having an occupant load of
less than 50 when it is the only building on the premises used as a Group E
Occupancy.	Individual buildings separated by not less than 20 feet of open space
may each have a separate local signaling system in lieu of interconnecting the
alarm system between buildings.	NOTES:	a.	Fire alarm systems required by these
regulations shall not be construed to include any equipment or devices not
essential to the operation of the alarm system, but does not prohibit the use of
such equipment or devices when approved as an integral part of the fire alarm
system.	b.	When only one building is used and the occupant load does not exceed
10, such building shall, for the purpose of this section, be considered as one
classroom.	2.	Types of Alarm Methods: A dependable method of sounding an alarm
of fire as required by this section shall be any one of the following:	a.	An
approved and listed local fire alarm system consisting of either of the
following:	(1)	When not more than one fire alarm pull station is required for
the premises, the fire alarm system may consist of any device or devices
approved by the Chief. Alarm sounding devices shall have a distinctive tone,
shall not be used for any other purpose, and shall be audible throughout the
premises; or	(2)	An electrically supervised two-way communication system
providing communication between all rooms (except closets, utility rooms,
equipment rooms, supply rooms and similar accessory or auxiliary rooms or
areas), and the main administrative office or a centralized location on the
premises.	EXCEPTIONS:	1.	When approved by the Chief, manual pull stations may be
permitted in lieu of the two-way communication devices as otherwise required by
this section.	2.	When approved by the Chief, an existing two-way voice
communication system otherwise conforming to Section 57.122.08,  B.2.a.(2) need
not be electrically supervised, provided each room or area used or occupied by
students has at least one direct means of egress to the exterior.	The main
administrative office or centralized location shall be constantly supervised by
qualified adult personnel under conditions approved by the Chief.  Manual means
for sounding a local alarm shall be provided in the main administrative office
or centralized location.  The Chief may revoke the permissive use authorized by
Section 57.120.08 B.2.a.(2) at any time that the supervisory requirements are
not in accordance with the conditions of approval, or at any time that the
communication system is found to be improperly maintained or inoperative.	b.	An
approved and listed automatic fire detection system installed throughout the
building.  Such system shall be of the local fire alarm type for alerting
occupants.  Manual pull stations shall not be required except for one such
station located in the main administrative office or at a centralized location
on the premises.  Detection devices shall be of any approved type.	c.	An
approved and listed pre-signal fire alarm system which shall transmit the alarm
signal to a centralized location in the building or, when approved by the Chief,
to a centralized location on the premises.  A manual pull station shall be
provided in the centralized location for sounding a local alarm in any building
or in all buildings.	The pre-signal alarm shall, after sounding in the
centralized location, automatically be retransmitted as a local alarm after not
more than 15 seconds, or, as approved by the Chief, not more than 30 seconds,
after the original initiation unless manually cut off at the centralized
location.	Upon receipt of the pre-signal alarm, an immediate investigation shall
be commenced.  If the alarm is not verified as a false alarm and the system
reset, a local alarm shall override the cutoff switch after not more than two
minutes of original cutoff switch activation (see Section 57.122.08, B-4
relating to annunciation).	When the pre-signal alarm is transmitted to a
centralized location on the premises rather than to a centralized location in
each building, the system shall be arranged to transmit a signal which indicates
either in the signal, or by approved visual means, the building from which the
signal was initiated See Section 57.122.08, B-4 relating to annunciation).	d.	An
approved and listed fire alarm system installed for alerting occupants.  Such
system shall sound a local alarm upon activation of an approved and listed
automatic sprinkler system installed throughout the building.  Manual pull
stations shall not be required except for one such station located in the main
administrative office or at a centralized location on the premises.	3.	Uniform
Fire Alarm Signal:	a.	Except when the sounding devices of a fire alarm system
have a distinctive tone and are used for no other purpose, as permitted by
Section 57.112.08 B 2 (a)(1), the system shall provide the California Uniform
Fire Code Signal as follows:	(1)	An intermittent sound signal shall be given by
repeated successive short intermittent signals for a full period of 10 seconds,
to be immediately followed by an intermission period of silence of five full
seconds before the signal is repeated.	(2)	In no case shall the signal be given
for less than a one-minute period, and then only in the manner
indicated.	b.	When electrical signal circuits are used for purposes other than
for the sounding of fire alarms or for fire drills, a special unit shall be
provided that when activated by the signal initiating circuit or by the
operation of a special lever-operated transmitting device, will automatically
sound the Uniform Fire code signal over all alarm signal
circuits.	4.	Annunciation: When deemed necessary by the Chief, identification or
annunciation of the location where the fire alarm signal has been initiated, or
the location where interruption of the system has caused the sounding of a
trouble signal, shall be provided in the main administrative office or at a
centralized location.  The system shall be arranged to transmit a signal which
indicates either in the signal or by approved visual means, the building, floor,
area, or section from which the signal was initiated.	5.	Additions: All
additions or alterations to any existing fire alarm system shall conform to the
provisions of this Section.	C.	Group I Occupancies:	1.	Group I, Division 1
Occupancies shall be provided with an approved fire alarm system containing
manual pull stations for the alerting of staff and attendants only.  This
system shall have approved audible sounding devices so located that all members
of the staff and all attendants may readily hear the alarm.	The arrangement,
location, and type of signaling and initiating devices shall conform to the
provisions of this division for facilities housing nonambulatory
persons.	2.	Group I, Division 2 Occupancies shall be provided with an approved
local alarm system containing manual pull stations for the alerting of
occupants.  The arrangement, location, and type of signaling and initiating
devices shall conform to the provisions of this division.	EXCEPTIONS:	1.	A
separate approved fire alarm system shall not be required for any occupancy
housing 15 or less patients or guests when the occupancy is protected throughout
by an approved automatic sprinkler system.  In such instances, signaling
devices of a type as set forth in this section for the occupancy in question,
which will actuate upon operation of the sprinkler system, shall be provided. 
In addition, manual pull stations shall also be provided to activate the
signaling devices.	2.	A separate approved fire alarm system shall not be
required for any occupancy protected throughout by an approved automatic fire
alarm system provided with manually operated initiating devices installed to
actuate the signaling devices.	3.	Group I, Division 3 Occupancies housing mental
hospitals or mental sanitariums shall be provided with an approved fire alarm
system for the alerting of staff and attendants. Systems for the alerting of
staff and attendants shall have approved audible sounding devices so located
that all members of the staff and all attendants may readily hear the alarm. 
The arrangement, location, and type of signaling and initiating devices shall
conform to the provisions of this division.	4.	Every new or existing Group I,
Division IA and 2A occupancies shall have installed in every sleeping area, and
every corridor or passageway serving sleeping areas, approved and listed smoke
detectors.  An additional detector shall be mounted on the ceiling directly
above any interior stairway.	Detectors shall be mounted on the ceiling or wall
at a point centrally located in the corridor or area giving access to rooms used
for sleeping purposes.	Installation will not interfere with the operating
characteristics of the detectors when activated.  Detectors shall provide an
alarm audible in the sleeping areas.  In occupancies housing nonambulatory
persons, staff and attendants shall be alerted upon activation of any detector
required by this subsection.	EXCEPTION:	Occupancies or buildings which are
protected by an approved automatic sprinkler system.	D.	Group R
Occupancies:	1.	An approved automatic or manually activated local fire alarm
system shall be provided for:	a.	Every apartment house three or more stories in
height or containing 16 or more dwelling units.	b.	Every hotel three or more
stories in height or containing 20 or more guest rooms.	2.	General: Local fire
alarm system shall be so designed that all occupants of the building may be
warned simultaneously.	EXCEPTION:	A fire alarm system need not be installed
provided such apartment house or hotel is less than three stories in height and
is separated by area separation walls of not less than four-hour fire-resistive
construction in Types I, II-F.R., III, or IV H.T. buildings and two-hour
fire-resistive construction in all other types of buildings.  Such area
separations shall also be restricted as follows:	1.	Areas do not exceed the
number of dwelling units or guest rooms permitted in Section 57.122.08,
D-1.	2.	The area separation wall conforms to Chapter 9 of the L.A.M.C. (Building
Code).	3.	The area separation wall extends to all outer edges of horizontal
projecting elements, such as balconies, roof overhangs, canopies, marquees, or
architectural projections.	4.	No openings are permitted for air ducts or similar
penetrations except that openings for pipes, conduits, and electrical outlets of
copper, sheet steel, or ferrous material shall be permitted through such wall
and need not be protected provided such penetrations do not improperly impair
the required fire resistance of the wall assembly.  Tolerances around such
penetrations shall be cement grouted or filled with approved noncombustible
materials.	3.	Automatic Sprinkler Systems: Automatic sprinkler systems installed
in Group R, Division 1 Occupancies shall have an approved flow indicator
electrically  interconnected to the required fire alarm system.  Upon
activation the flow indicator will cause the fire alarm system to sound an
audible signal throughout the premises.	E.	New High-Rise Buildings:	The
arrangement, location, and type of signaling devices shall conform to the
provisions of this division in addition to fire protective signaling system
requirements set forth in Division 118 of this article.	F.	(Added by Ord. No.
170,954, Eff. 4/16/96.)  Any person who violates this section shall be 
punishable by at least a mandatory minimum fine of $100.00, up to and not
exceeding $1,000.00 or by imprisonment in the County Jail for a period of not
more than six (6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.  Each person
shall be guilty of a separate offense for each and every day, or portion
thereof, during which a violation of any provision of this section is committed,
continued, or permitted by such person and shall be punishable accordingly.
