                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

NOTIFICATION AND MAINTENANCE OF INFORMATION. (§ 57.10.06)

  NOTIFICATION AND MAINTENANCE OF INFORMATION.
	(Added by Ord. No. 168,176, Eff. 9/20/92.)	A.	The licensed contractor
performing the abatement process shall submit to the Los Angeles City Fire
Department three properly completed copies of the SCAQMD Rule 1403 Notification
Form or separate sheets containing the same information at the time of
application for the permit to remove the ACM.	B.	A separate letter shall be
mailed by the contractor to the Fire Department within 48 hours of the
completion of permitted work stating that the removal of asbestos is complete
and that all removed fireproofing has been replaced, including all required
respray, in a manner approved by the Department of Building and  Safety.  This
letter shall be signed by the contractor or by any subcontractor performing the
respray.	If the contractor does not perform the respray, or cause the respray to
be performed by a subcontractor, the contractor shall forward a letter to the
Fire Department within 48 hours of the completion of the work stating that the
removal of the asbestos is complete, that all required fireproofing has been
replaced, if applicable, excluding respray, and stating the name of the
contractor hired to do the respray.  If the name of the contractor hired to do
the respray is unavailable, the letter shall so state.	C.	Plans described in
Section 57.10.04E shall be kept by the contractor in a clearly identified
three-ring loose-leaf binder located in the building’s Fire Control Room, at
the building’s staffed security desk if no Fire Control Room exists, or if
neither of these locations exists, at a location approved by the Fire
Department.	D.	The loose leaf binder shall be updated daily and used exclusively
to provide the Fire Department with accurate emergency information.  The binder
shall also contain an introduction page stating:	1.	The name, address, and
business and emergency phone numbers for the:	a.	Asbestos Contractor.	b.	Respray
Contractor.	c.	Project Consultant.	d.	Job Superintendent.	2.	Start and
completion dates for the abatement project, including respray.	3.	Regular
working days and working hours.	4.	Job site and phone number.
