                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

UNDERCOATING APPLICATION IN GARAGES. (§ 57.100.36)

  UNDERCOATING APPLICATION IN GARAGES.	The application of flammable
undercoating materials may be conducted outside of spray rooms, booths or
tunnels, provided that the Chief finds that there is adequate ventilation which
will remove explosive and flammable mixtures from all portions of the building
and that the residue and vapors from such spraying will not endanger health,
life or property.  The approval of the Chief for such operation is subject to
conformance with the following:	A.	Electrical Requirements: The electrical
equipment in the area where flammable undercoating materials are applied is
subject to the requirements of Chapter 9 of the L.A.M.C. (Electrical
Code).	B.	Location: Undercoating shall be done in an approved location 25 feet
of vapor travel distance from open flames, pits or basements and storage of
combustible waste materials.	C.	Ventilation: Natural ventilation shall be deemed
to be adequate if one side of the hazardous area is entirely open to the
atmosphere during application.	D.	Use:	1.	Application shall be done directly
from drums or tanks by means of an approved pump device operating through a
tight fitting cover.	2.	Motor vehicles shall be sufficiently elevated in order
that application not be done from a prone position.	3.	If thinners having flash
points lower than that of the under-coating material are used, the flash point
of the material shall be deemed to be that of the thinner.	E.	Storage:	1.	Drum
Storage:	a.	All drum storage of flammable undercoating material shall conform to
applicable provisions of this article.	b.	The transferring of flammable
undercoating materials from one drum to another inside of buildings is
prohibited. Replenishment of supply may be accomplished only by the exchange of
drums.	c.	At the point of use, one drum or an eight hour supply, whichever is
greater, will be permitted.	2.	Storage Tank:	a.	Construction: Tanks shall be
constructed of not less than 14 gauge steel with all joints and seams
welded.	b.	Capacity: Inside storage of bulk flammable undercoating material
shall be in approved tanks.  The capacity of tanks shall be limited in relation
to the materials stored therein in accordance with the following table:TABLE
100-A
STORAGE TANKS – CAPACITY  
    
      
        Flash Point of Material
      
      
        Capacity in Gallons
      
    
    
      
        Below 70º F.
      
      
        120
      
    
    
      
        70º F. or greater but less than 100º F.
      
      
        180
      
    
    
      
        100º F. or greater but less than 150º F.
      
      
        240
      
    
  
	c.	Vents: Tanks shall be vented to the outside atmosphere by a vent pipe not
less than 1-1/4 inch in diameter.	d.	Supports: Tanks shall be placed flat upon
noncombustible floors, or; if provided with supports which are over 12 inches in
height, they shall be protected by at least one-hour fire-resistive
material.	e.	Fill Pipes: Tank fill pipes shall be provided with a tight-fitting
snap or screw type closure which prevents the escape of vapors.	f.	Sealed
Openings: No tank opening shall be permitted inside of a building unless such
openings are sealed in a manner to prevent the escape of flammable
vapors.	g.	Filling: The refilling of tanks may be accomplished from drums or a
cargo tank located or mounted on a vehicle outside of the building, by means of
an approved transfer device.  The transferring may be done from either an
outside fill pipe or through an approved hose not more than 25 feet in length
and fitted with a nozzle which will form a vapor-tight seal when inserted in a
tank fill opening.	EXCEPTION:	Undercoating materials having a flash point over
100° F. in quantities of six unit drums or less, may be transferred to approved
tanks inside buildings, provided; all such drums are transported and remain upon
approved vehicle during the transfer process, and provided further; that such
vehicle and drums are removed from the building promptly after transfer is
completed.
