                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

INFLATION SYSTEM. (§ 57.115.22)

  INFLATION SYSTEM.	A.	General: Membrane structures shall be provided with
primary and auxiliary inflation systems as required by this
section.	B.	Equipment Requirements: The inflation system shall consist of one or
more blowers and shall include provisions for automatic control to maintain the
required inflation pressures.  The system shall be so designed as to prevent
over pressurization of the system.	In addition to the primary inflation system
in buildings exceeding 1,500 square feet in area, there shall be provided an
auxiliary inflation system with sufficient capacity to maintain the inflation of
the structure in case of primary system failure.	Blowers shall be centrifugal
and shall:	1.	Be powered by continuous-rated motors (at the maximum power
required for any flow condition) as required by the structural design.	2.	Have
adequate personnel protection such as inlet screens and belt guards (if belt
driven).	3.	Be housed within a weather-protection structure to assure continued
service in all weather conditions.	4.	Be equipped with back-draft check dampers
to minimize air loss when inoperative.	Any air-supported or air-inflated
structure used as a place of assemblage shall be furnished with not less than
two blowers, each of which has adequate capacity to maintain full inflation
pressure with normal leakage.	Blower inlet location shall be approved by the
Chief to provide protection from air contamination.	C.	Standby Power: Whenever
an auxiliary inflation system is required, an approved standby power-generating
system shall be provided.  The system shall be equipped with a suitable means
for automatically starting the generator set upon failure of the normal
electrical service and for automatic transfer and operation of all the required
electrical functions at full power within 60 seconds of such normal service
failure.  Standby power shall be capable of operating independently for a
minimum of two hours.
