                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

FLAMMABLE AND COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS IN DWELLING UNITS AND GUEST ROOMS. (§
57.112.08)

  FLAMMABLE AND COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS IN DWELLING UNITS AND GUEST ROOMS.	A.	The
storage, handling, and use of Class IA liquids in any dwelling unit or guest
room, or in any room, building, or premises accessory to a dwelling unit or
guest room, except as otherwise regulated by this article, is
prohibited.	B.	Class IB, IC or Class II liquids with a flashpoint below 110°F.
shall not be used in any dwelling unit or guest room for any of the following
purposes:	1.	The cleaning by dipping or submerging of any clothing, drapes,
bedding, or similar material.	2.	The cleaning or polishing of floors, walls,
ceilings, windows, furniture, equipment, or similar surfaces.	3.	Insecticides,
pest sprays, or rodent exterminators.	4.	Washing parts or removing grease or
dirt.	C.	The storage, handling, and use of Class IB, IC, or combustible liquids
in hotels or apartment houses shall be only for the purpose of maintenance and
operation of maintenance equipment. Storage shall be in approved containers and
in Hazardous Material Cabinets in locations approved by the Chief.	Maximum
quantities in hotels or apartment houses. for Class IB, IC, and Class II liquids
combined shall not exceed 10 gallons and for Class III liquids shall not exceed
60 gallons.	EXCEPTION:	Storage in excess of these amounts may be approved by the
Chief if stored in a Hazardous Material Room or an H-l, H-2, or H-3 occupancy
that has no openings into portions of the building used by the
public.	D.	Basement:	1.	Flammable liquids shall not be stored, handled, or used
in basements of any residential occupancy.	2.	Class II or Class III liquids in
quantities not exceeding those in Subsection C may be stored in basements with
approval and Special Permit from the Chief, provided the basement is protected
by an automatic fire extinguishing system in accordance with Chapter 9 of the
L.A.M.C. (Plumbing Code).
