                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

STANDBY AND EMERGENCY POWER SYSTEM. (§ 57.118.08)

  STANDBY AND EMERGENCY POWER SYSTEM.	A.	Standby Power:	1.	Generation System: A
permanently installed on-site standby power generation system consisting of one
or more generators including the prime mover shall be provided.  In the event
of failure of the normal source of electrical service, the standby power
generation system shall provide an alternate source of electrical energy to
serve at least the designated power loads set forth in Subdivision 2 of this
subsection.	2.	Power Loads: The power load requirements for sizing the standby
power generation system shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, the
following:	a.	Exit signs and exit illumination.	b.	Elevator car
lighting.	c.	Fire alarm systems.	d.	Fire detection systems.	e.	Sprinkler alarm
systems.	f.	Electrically driven fire pumps.	g.	Building communication
systems.	h.	Smoke control systems.	i.	Elevators designated for Fire Department
and emergency use.	j.	Lighting circuits supplying elevator lobbies, the building
control station, the generator room, and the fire pump room.	k.	Exterior window
washing equipment.  (Amended by Ord. No. 167,326, Eff. 11/16/91.)	3.	Transfer
Time: The standby power generation system shall be equipped with suitable means
for automatically starting the generator set upon failure of the normal
electrical service and shall provide for the automatic transfer and operation of
electrical systems and equipment specified in Section 57.118.08, A-2, at full
power within 60 seconds of such normal service failure.	4.	Fuel Supplies:
On-site fuel supplies for prime movers of standby power generator sets shall be
sufficient for at least eight hours at full demand operation.	B.	Emergency
Power:	1.	Electrical systems and equipment specified herein are classed as
emergency systems and shall be installed in every new high-rise
building.	a.	Exit signs and exit illumination.	b.	Elevator car lighting.	c.	Fire
alarm systems.	d.	Fire detection systems.	e.	Sprinkler alarm
systems.	2.	Transfer Time: The emergency power supply system shall be so
designed that upon failure of the normal electrical service the emergency power
shall be automatically transferred and operated within 10 seconds of such
service failure.  Such emergency power supply system may be separate from the
standby power system specified in Subsection A of this section.	When the standby
power generation system reaches full operating capacity, the emergency
electrical systems and equipment shall be transferred thereto.	C.	Installation,
alteration, and major repair of the items listed in Subsections A and B of this
section shall be performed under Permit of Chapter 9 of the L.A.M.C. (Electrical
Code) when required.
