                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SIGNS. (§ 57.138.13)

  SIGNS.	A.	All Fire Department sprinkler and standpipe inlet connections shall
be provided with approved signs indicating the type of system and the area
served.  shall be securely attached to the building adjacent to the inlet
connections.  Signs shall be not less than eight inches in width and four
inches in height.	B.	Automatic sprinkler systems, standpipe systems, fire pumps,
and risers shall be provided and maintained with identification signs for all
control, drain, test, and alarm valves.  Signs shall be of the standard design
approved by the Chief.  Directional arrows shall be provided to indicate water
flow on fire pumps and risers.  (Amended by Ord. No. 167,326, Eff.
11/16/91.)	C.	Signs stating “SPRINKLER SHUTOFF” showing the location of
sprinkler shutoff valves shall be provided on doors of rooms or closets that
contain sprinkler shutoff valves and at any other locations required by the
Chief.  The size of letters on the sign shall be approved by the Chief and on a
contrasting background.  Directional signs shall include an arrow indicating
the direction of travel to sprinkler shutoff valves.	D.	Fire hose cabinets shall
be clearly identifiable or contain a sign on the cabinet door stating  “FIRE
HOSE” with letters not less than three inches in height on a contrasting
background.	E.	Fire hose cabinets that contain a fire extinguisher shall also be
identified with a sign stating “FIRE EXTINGUISHER” with letters not less
than three inches high on a contrasting background.	F.	(Added by Ord. No.
170,954, Eff. 4/16/96.)  Any person who violates this section shall be 
punishable by at least a mandatory minimum fine of $100.00, up to and not
exceeding $1,000.00 or by imprisonment in the County Jail for a period of not
more than six (6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.  Each person
shall be guilty of a separate offense for each and every day, or portion
thereof, during which a violation of any provision of this section is committed,
continued, or permitted by such person and shall be punishable accordingly.
