                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

GENERAL REQUIREMENTS. (§ 57.140.09)

  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.	A.	Every building, structure, or premises, except for
dwellings, shall be provided with the number, size, and type of portable fire
extinguishers as determined by the Chief, based upon the hazard to be
protected.	B.	Portable fire extinguishers shall be maintained in a fully charged
and operable condition and kept in their approved locations when not in
use.	C.	Portable fire extinguishers shall be conspicuously located where they
will be readily accessible and immediately available at all times.  When it is
not practical to install extinguishers in a plainly visible location, signs or
other approved identification shall be provided to indicate the
location.	D.	Portable fire extinguishers shall be installed on hangers, in
approved brackets, or set in cabinets unless the extinguishers are of the
wheeled type.	E.	Portable fire extinguishers having a gross weight not exceeding
40 pounds shall be installed so that the top of the extinguisher is not more
than five feet above the floor. Extinguishers having a gross weight greater than
40 pounds (except wheeled type) shall be so installed that the top of the
extinguisher is not more than three and one-half feet above the floor.  In no
case shall the clearance between the bottom of the extinguisher and the floor be
less than four inches.	F.	Portable fire extinguishers should not be located
where ambient temperatures exceed 120°F. unless otherwise noted on the
nameplate of the extinguisher.	G.	(Added by Ord. No. 170,954, Eff. 4/16/96.) 
Any person who violates this section shall be  punishable by at least a
mandatory minimum fine of $200.00, up to and not exceeding $1,000.00 or by
imprisonment in the County Jail for a period of not more than six (6) months, or
by both such fine and imprisonment.  Each person shall be guilty of a separate
offense for each and every day, or portion thereof, during which a violation of
any provision of this section is committed, continued, or permitted by such
person and shall be punishable accordingly.
