                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

COMPRESSED GASES AND LIQUEFIED FLAMMABLE GASES. (§ 57.110.19)

  COMPRESSED GASES AND LIQUEFIED FLAMMABLE GASES.	A.	No person shall, without a
Special Permit, use or store compressed gases or liquefied flammable gases
within any assembly occupancy for demonstrations, exhibitions, trade shows,
lectures or any other purpose which in the opinion of the Chief would create a
fire, life, or panic hazard.	B.	Special Permits shall specify the following
conditions for the proper use or display of compressed gases or liquefied
flammable gases within any assembly occupancy:	1.	Cylinders and their
appurtenances shall be designed, fabricated, tested, and maintained in
accordance with Division 41 of this article.  Cylinders and their system
components shall be approved and listed for their proposed use.	2.	Cylinders
shall be stored in a place and manner approved by the Chief.	3.	The use or
display of compressed gases or liquefied flammable gases shall not exceed 30
consecutive days.	4.	Liquefied flammable gas cylinders shall be installed in an
upright position and be secured to prevent movement.	5.	Cylinders shall not be
exposed to any heat above ambient temperature.	6.	Cylinders equipped with
protective caps shall, except when in use, have the caps in place.	7.	Cylinder
valves shall be closed at any time the demand for gas ceases so that pressure
will not be maintained on any attached equipment.	8.	The amount of gas and
number of cylinders shall not exceed the amount and number approved by the Chief
for a specific location.	9.	Not less than one 10B:C portable fire extinguisher
shall be provided and accessible at each location where open flame is
used.	10.	Liquefied flammable gas cylinders shall not exceed 5.76 gallons water
capacity in size.	11.	Liquefied flammable gas cylinders shall not be filled with
more than 50 percent of nominal charging capacity.	12.	The total amount of
liquefied flammable gas cylinders on the premises shall not exceed 60 gallons at
any time.	13.	Liquefied flammable gas used for the preparation or warming of
food for retail sale is prohibited.	C.	Liquefied flammable gas used for space
heating shall be supplied from a fuel cylinder located outside of and at least
10 feet from any assembly occupancy.  An approved heater and piping system
shall be used.  Flexible hose in length up to 36 inches may be used if it is
designed for a minimum bursting pressure of 1,750 PSIG, and such hose shall be
marked with “L.P.-GAS” or “LPG” labeling.	D.	Cylinder pressure
regulating devices shall be located adjacent to the cylinder.  Cylinders and
regulating devices shall be located and protected to prevent physical
damage.PROJECTION ROOMS AND FILM USED IN ASSEMBLY OCCUPANCY
