                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

EMERGENCY HELICOPTER LANDING FACILITY. (§ 57.118.12)

  EMERGENCY HELICOPTER LANDING FACILITY.	Each building shall have a rooftop
emergency helicopter landing facility in a location approved by the Chief.  A
heliport as classified in L.A.F.D. Standard No. 54 may be accepted in lieu of
the emergency helicopter landing facility.  Facilities shall be installed under
Permit of Chapter 9 of the L.A.M.C. (Building and Plumbing Code) and should also
be in accordance with the guidelines of L.A.F.D. Standard No.
54.	A.	Definitions:	Approach-Departure Path – The flight path of the
helicopter as it approaches or departs from the emergency helicopter landing
facility designated take off and landing area.  The approach-departure path is
measured from the edge of the takeoff and landing area and is a rising slope
determined by a ratio of eight feet horizontal distance for every one foot of
vertical height.	Peripheral Area – An obstruction free (i.e. no intrusions
into the approach-departure path) area adjacent to the takeoff and landing area
serving as a safety zone.	Takeoff and Landing Area – The designated area on
the emergency helicopter landing facility from which helicopter departures and
approaches are intended to originate or terminate.	Touchdown Pad – The load
bearing portion of the emergency helicopter landing facility designated takeoff
and landing area on which a helicopter may land.	B.	An emergency helicopter
landing facility shall meet the following minimum
requirements:	1.	Approach-Departure Path: The facility shall have two
approach-departure paths with a 90 degree arc of separation between the
two.	2.	Touchdown Pad: The touchdown pad shall have a dimension of 50 feet by 50
feet.	NOTE: The touchdown pad is the same size as the takeoff and landing
area.	3.	Peripheral Area: The peripheral area (obstruction free safety zone)
surrounding the takeoff and landing area/touchdown pad shall be 25 feet from the
edge of the takeoff and landing area.	4.	Safety Net: If the touchdown pad is
elevated more than 30 inches above the adjoining roof level, a horizontally
attached safety net shall be installed around the perimeter.  The safety net
shall be located in such a manner that it will not penetrate the
approach-departure paths.	5.	A wind-indicating device shall be provided.	6.	Fire
Protection: One Class H standpipe in accordance with Chapter 9 of the L.A.M.C.
(Plumbing Code) shall be provided.  A weather resistant cabinet for fire hose
shall be provided with 100 feet of rubber-lined, single-jacketed, one and
one-half inch fire hose equipped with a fog nozzle.	7.	The emergency helicopter
landing facility shall be marked as indicated in Figure
118-A.	EXCEPTION:	Heliport marking as defined in L.A.F.D. Standard No. 54 for
private use or public use may be accepted.FIGURE 118-A
MARKINGS UTILIZING A SQUARE FOR A ROOF-TOP EMERGENCY HELICOPTER LANDING
FACILITY.
(Amended by Ord. No. 167,326, Eff. 11/16/91.)	NOTES:	1.	The preferred touchdown
pad background color is white.	2.	The red numeral indicates the allowable
weight, in thousands of pounds, that the facility is capable of
supporting.	3.	The numeral shall be oriented toward magnetic north.	4.	Allowable
weight shall not be in metric units.
