                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PORTABLE FIRE EXTINGUISHER SIZE AND PLACEMENT. (§ 57.140.10)

  PORTABLE FIRE EXTINGUISHER SIZE AND PLACEMENT.	The minimum number, size, and
type of portable fire extinguisher needed to protect a building, structure, or
premises shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of this
section.	A.	Class A Hazard: Where the flammable or combustible materials present
a hazard of Class A fires there shall be an approved Class A portable fire
extinguisher within 75 feet of every portion of the building, structure, or
premises in accordance with Table 140-A.TABLE 140-A
CLASS A HAZARDS
  
    
      
        Type of Hazard
      
      
        Minimum Extinguisher Rating
      
      
        Maximum Distance in Feet
      
    
    
      
        Light
      
      
        2A
      
      
        75
      
    
    
      
        Ordinary
      
      
        2A
      
      
        75
      
    
    
      
        Extra
      
      
        4A*
      
      
        75
      
    
  
	*  Two 2-1/2 gal. water type extinguishers may be used to fulfill the
requirement of one 4A rated extinguisher.	B.	Class B Hazard: In every building,
structure, or premises where flammable liquids are used, processed, produced, or
stored, approved Class B portable fire extinguishers shall be provided and
located as determined by the Chief.	1.	Where the flammable or combustible
materials present a hazard of Class B fires only, Class B extinguishers shall be
provided in accordance with Table 140-B.TABLE 140-B
CLASS B HAZARDS  
    
      
        Type of Hazard
      
      
        *Minimum Extinguisher Rating
      
      
        **Maximum Distance in Feet
      
    
    
      
        Light
      
      
        10B
      
      
        30
      
    
    
      
        Ordinary
      
      
        10B
      
      
        30
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        20B
      
      
        50
      
    
    
      
        Extra
      
      
        40B
      
      
        30
      
    
    
      
        
      
      
        80B
      
      
        50
      
    
  
	*  Two or more extinguishers of lower ratings shall not be used to fulfill the
protection requirements of Table 140-B.	**  The protection requirements may be
accomplished with extinguishers of higher ratings provided the travel distance
to such larger extinguishers shall not exceed 50 feet.	2.	In addition, Class B
extinguishers shall be located within buildings in accordance with the
following:	a.	At least one extinguisher having a rating of not less than 20B
shall be located outside of, but not more than 10 feet, from a door opening into
any Hazardous Materials Room.	b.	At least one extinguisher having a rating of
not less than 20B shall be located not less than 10 feet nor more than 30 feet
from any flammable liquid storage area outside of a Hazardous Materials Room or
adjacent to a spray booth.	c.	At least one extinguisher having a rating of not
less than l0B shall be located not less than 10 feet nor more than 30 feet from
any dip tank having a liquid surface area less than 10 square feet or a capacity
of less than 150 gallons. Every dip tank exceeding these dimensions shall be
equipped with an automatic fire extinguishing system complying with Division 141
of this article.	d.	At least one extinguisher having a rating of not less than
l0B shall be located adjacent to and within 50 feet of where flammable liquids
are displayed for retail sale.	C.	Class C Hazard: Portable fire extinguishers
with Class C ratings shall be required where energized electrical panels or
equipment may be encountered which would require a nonconducting extinguishing
agent.  The extinguisher size and location shall be determined on the basis of
the anticipated Class A or B hazard surrounding the electrical equipment. 
Extinguishers shall be located not more than 50 feet from the Class C
hazard.	D.	Class D Hazard: Portable fire extinguishers for Class D hazards shall
be required on the basis of the specific combustible metal and the size and area
to be covered. Extinguishers shall be of an approved extinguishing agent and
located not more than 75 feet from the Class D hazard.	E.	The provisions of this
section may be altered at the discretion of the Chief upon consideration of the
special features such as the use of the occupancy, the quantity, distribution,
and arrangement of the flammable or combustible materials, and the construction
of the building.
