                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

FEES. (§ 57.15.03)

  FEES.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 180,760, Eff. 8/6/09.)	A.	Before accepting an application
for any services or any permit required by this Division, the Fire Department
shall collect the fees established by the most current cost-recovery schedule
published as provided by Section 57.04.12 C. and applicable
thereto.	B.	Fire/Life Safety Plan Review Fee.  The Fire/Life Safety Plan Review
Fee is for projects described in Section 57.15.02 A.  The fee includes plan
review and up to two (2) hours of initial field inspection.  The fee shall be
computed at the Inspector’s hourly rate, for a minimum of three (3) hours, or
0.111% of the project valuation, whichever is higher. The project valuation is
to be determined by Building and Safety.  No additional fee shall be charged
for verification of the corrections required by the Fire Department.  However,
when plans are revised by the applicant for reasons other than plan review
correction and require additional time to review the plan revisions, the Fire
Department shall collect an additional fee.	C.	Inspection and Re-inspection
Fee.  The Additional Field Inspection and Re-Inspection Fee is for Fire/Life
Safety Review projects described in Section 57.15.02 A.  The fee shall be based
on the Inspector’s hourly rate, with a one (1) hour minimum.  The Additional
Inspection and Re-Inspection are incurred beyond the initial field inspection
covered under the Fire/Life Safety Plan Review Fee.  Additional fees are
applicable for any additional inspections beyond the initial field inspection or
when the length of the initial inspection exceeds two (2) hours.	D.	Expedite or
Off-Hour Fire/Life Safety Plan Review and/or Inspection Fee.  The Expedite or
Off-Hour Fire/Life Safety Plan Review and Inspection Fee applies to projects
described in Section 57.15.02 A., where the plan review and/or inspection is to
be expedited to occur at the earliest possible time, which may include off-hour
time.  Off-Hour time is any time outside of normal business hours of the City.
The fee shall be based on the Inspector Expedite/Off-Hour rate, with a minimum
of four hours, and per hour thereafter.
