                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SMOKE DETECTOR MAINTENANCE. (§ 57.112.07)

  SMOKE DETECTOR MAINTENANCE.	A.	Smoke detectors required by Chapter 9 of the
L.A.M.C. (Building Code) shall be maintained in dependable operating condition
and tested every six months or as required by the Chief. An accurate record of
such tests shall be kept by the owner, manager, or person in charge of the
property, and such records shall be open to examination by the Chief.	B.	Every
tenant, including every person occupying a dwelling unit or guest room, shall
notify in writing the owner or the owner’s designated agent as soon as
possible of a known defect or malfunction in a smoke detector required by
Chapter 9 of the L.A.M.C. (Building Code). After an occupant has so notified the
owner or agent, that occupant’s duty will cease.	C.	Any owner or owner’s
agent may enter any dwelling unit or guest room owned by such owner for the
purpose of inspecting, repairing, testing, and maintaining.  smoke detectors
required by Chapter 9 of the L.A.M.C. (Building Code). Except in cases of
emergency, the owner or owner’s agent shall give the tenant reasonable notice
in writing of the intention to enter and shall enter only during normal business
hours. A period of 24 hours shall be considered to be reasonable notice in the
absence of evidence to the contrary.	D.	No tenant, after reasonable notice has
been given as herein provided, shall refuse to permit the owner or owner’s
agent to enter the premises for any of the purposes enumerated in Subsection C.
of this section.	E.	No person shall remove or render inoperable any required
smoke detector except to repair or replace such smoke detector.	F.	(Added by
Ord. No. 170,954, Eff. 4/16/96.)  Any person who violates this section shall
be  punishable by at least a mandatory minimum fine of $100.00, up to and not
exceeding $1,000.00 or by imprisonment in the County Jail for a period of not
more than six (6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.  Each person
shall be guilty of a separate offense for each and every day, or portion
thereof, during which a violation of any provision of this section is committed,
continued, or permitted by such person and shall be punishable accordingly.
