                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PERMIT REQUIRED. (§ 57.119.03)

  PERMIT REQUIRED.
	(Added by Ord. No. 168,851, Eff. 8/2/93.)	A.	Applications For Permit.  No
person or owner shall operate or maintain a new or existing high-rise building
without having obtained an annually renewable permit pursuant to this section.
  As to buildings constructed prior to January 1 of the year, including
buildings constructed prior to the effective date of these regulations,
application for permit shall be filed on or before January 1 following the date
of construction or the effective date of these regulations.  Renewal
applications shall be filed on or before January of each year.  In the event no
application or renewal application is filed by January 1, the building will be
deemed to be operating without a permit.  The date of construction shall be the
date of issuance of a temporary certificate of occupancy by the Department of
Building and Safety.  All applications for permit shall be filed with the
Department, and shall be in writing on forms provided by the Department.  The
initial or renewal application for permit shall contain the following
information:	1.	The name and address of the applicant.	2.	A description of the
property by street and number, as well as the County Assessor map, book, page
and parcel number.	3.	Name and address of the owner of the building.	4.	A
statement signed by the applicant or the applicant’s authorized representative
stating that the applicant exercises charge and control over the operation and
maintenance of the high-rise building and agrees to comply with all regulations,
laws or ordinances pertaining thereto.	The application for permit shall be
accompanied by a signed statement by the owner that the owner understands he,
she or it is responsible for the payment of the fee imposed by the Department
pursuant to this division.	B.	Investigation.  The Fire Marshal shall
investigate the application for initial or renewal permit through authorized
members of the Department.  The application may be approved subject to terms
and conditions necessary to the safeguarding of life or property from hazards of
fire, explosion or panic.  Issuance of the initial permit will be based on
inspections made pursuant to California Administrative Code Title 19 during the
previous year.  Subsequent permit issuance will be based on inspections made
during each following calendar year. The application may be denied or revoked by
the Department if the building is unfit or incapable of being used, maintained
or operated in compliance with this article, other applicable laws and rules and
regulations of the Department.	C.	Form.  Each permit shall be issued in
accordance with the provisions of this division and shall set forth upon the
face thereof the following:	1.	The name of the person to whom issued.	2.	The
address where the premises are located and where the address is different from
that of the applicant, the address designated by the applicant or his or her
authorized agent for mailing purposes. The mailing address so appearing shall be
the address to which all notices required or authorized by this article shall be
sent unless the applicant or permittee shall request in writing that another
address be used for such purposes.	3.	The signature of the Chief printed
thereon.	4.	The date of expiration of the permit and the date upon which the
annual permit fee shall be due and payable.
