                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PROHIBITIONS. (§ 57.100.22)

  PROHIBITIONS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 172,043, Eff. 7/13/98.)	A.	Personnel Permitted to
Dispense:	No owner, operator, permittee or employee of any Auto Fueling Station
(except as provided in Subsection C of this section), flammable gas or liquefied
flammable gas Auto Fueling Station, Aircraft Fueling Station or Marine Service
Station, shall allow, sanction or permit the dispensing of motor fuel in or upon
any such premises by any person, except by such owner, operator, permittee or
competent person regularly employed in the operation of such
station.	B.	Dispensers:	Dispensers for Class I, II, or IIIA liquids and
flammable gases or liquefied flammable gases shall be of an approved type and
shall be installed in such manner and location as may be approved by the
Chief.	C.	Automatic Dispensing Devices:	1.	The installation and use of coin,
card, token, remote control, or similar type dispensing apparatus for Class I,
II, or IIIA liquids and flammable gases or liquefied flammable gases are
prohibited in all places listed in Subsection A of this section, except that the
use of these devices is permitted but limited to automobile fueling apparatus
dispensing Class I, II and IIIA liquids.  Where such installations are open to
the public, there shall be a competent attendant on duty at a remote-control
system or any other approved system and in such a position to observe any
dispensing of fuel at all times when the premises is open for business.	2.	The
use of any device that permits the dispensing of flammable or combustible
liquids when the hand of the operator of the discharging nozzle is removed from
the nozzle, is prohibited, unless complying with Subsection D of this
section.	D.	Prohibited Nozzle Uses:	Automatic nozzles with latch-open devices
may not be used unless they are approved by the Chief and shut off the flow of
liquid reliably and positively when:	1.	The vehicle tank or container being
filled is full.	2.	The nozzle falls from the filling neck of the vehicle tank or
container.	3.	The nozzle is subjected to rough usage such as dropping or lack of
proper maintenance.	4.	The vehicle is driven away with the nozzle in the
tank.	E.	Dispenser Hoses:	Dispenser hoses used in conjunction with nozzles
equipped with approved latch-open devices must be equipped with approved
break-away couplings.
