                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PERMIT FEE. (§ 57.119.05)

  PERMIT FEE.
	(Added by Ord. No. 168,851, Eff. 8/2/93.)	A.	Due Dates.	1.	Initial Payment. 
The permit fee shall initially be due, and  shall accompany the filing of an
initial permit  application, on the 1st of January following the date of
construction, as that term is defined in Section 57.119.03 of this Code, or for
buildings constructed prior to the effective date of these provisions, on 1st of
January following that effective date.	2.	Annual Renewal.  Annual Renewal
permit fees for existing permits shall become due and payable each year on the
first day of January of the calendar year and shall be submitted with the
renewal application.	3.	Delinquency.  Fees, whether initial or renewal, which
are not paid within 60 days after the due date shall be deemed delinquent and
subject to a 50% penalty.  However that the Department shall waive the penalty,
with the approval of the City Attorney, to the extent it exceeds any extra costs
caused by said delinquency.	B.	(None.)	C.	Computation.	1.	Manner of Determining
Cost.  The Board, with the concurrence of the City Administrative Officer,
shall determine on a regular basis the verifiable cost to the City for the
annual inspection of high rise buildings in connection with the issuance of the
permit herein.  These costs shall be the actual costs incurred as determined by
the Board. The costs to be considered and recovered shall be personnel salary
including all applicable indirect costs to the City for inspection of high-rise
buildings.  The Board shall use these costs to develop a cost recovery schedule
of applicable charges necessary to recover City costs in connection with the
issuance of the permit herein.  The Board shall adopt such costs as fees at any
time during each fiscal year, but not later than April 1.  The cost recovery
schedule shall recover the verifiable annual costs of inspection of high-rise
buildings which shall include the cost of collection of any fees due and owing
in connection with issuance of the permit.  It shall take into consideration
the number of permits issued and affected by the permit charges within the
period of time used for reference and development of the charges.  Upon
adoption of a schedule of verifiable costs by the Board, as provided herein, the
Board shall transmit the Board order to the Mayor and to the City Council. 
(Amended by Ord. 180,401, Eff. 1/9/09.)	2.	Manner of Approval Of Schedule.  At
any time within 60 days after delivery of the Board order, the Mayor, by
writing, or the Council, by majority vote, may disapprove the Board order. If,
within 60 days after delivery of such a proposed fee schedule from the Board,
neither the Mayor nor the City Council has disapproved said order of the
proposed schedule, or the Council has failed to recommend any amendments
thereon, the Board order and the Board’s proposed fee schedule shall be deemed
approved as submitted, and the Board shall cause it to be published in a daily
newspaper in the same manner as ordinances of the City are published pursuant to
Charter Section 251.  The order shall take effect upon publication.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 173,410, Eff. 8/27/00.)	In the event the Board fails to adopt a
Board order setting forth a proposed schedule of new fees for recovery of costs
before April 1 as set forth above, or in the event, that within 60 days after 
delivery by the Board of such a Board order and proposed cost recovery schedule
of fees to the Mayor and to the City Council, either the Mayor or the Council
disapproves the Board order or proposed schedule, or in the event the Council
recommends that the proposed schedule be amended to either increase or decrease
any of the fees, the proposed schedule submitted by the Board shall have no
force or effect as to those items recommended for amendment or which have been
disapproved and shall not become operative as to any such items.  In such 
event the fees as to those items on the proposed schedule which have been
disapproved or recommended for change shall not change during the ensuing fiscal
year under said Board order, provided however, that those remaining items not
disapproved or not recommended for amendment by the Council shall be deemed
approved and, as above provided, may be published as a schedule by the Board and
said deemed approved fees shall become effective as otherwise provided
herein.	D.	Manner of Assessing Fees.  (Amended by Ord. No. 180,401, Eff.
1/9/09.)  The cost recovery schedule adopted herein shall impose a charge per
square foot for each square foot of floor area in each building inspected and
the fee per building shall be the aggregate of such charges per square foot,
subject to the following:	1.	No fee shall be charged for inspection of high rise
buildings used primarily for residential purposes (Group R Occupancies), except
for hotels, dormitories, residential apartments, and condominiums.	2.	As to
hotels, dormitories, residential apartments, and condominiums, the charge per
square foot shall apply only to the common areas of the building.	3.	The charge
per square foot of garage area in any building shall be less than the charge per
square foot for the other areas of the building, as set forth in the schedule or
charges.	4.	Where a high-rise building is connected to another building(s) by a
permanent above-ground structure or structures designed to permit pedestrian
and/or vehicular passage from one building to another, and the buildings so
connected are under common ownership, the charge per square foot shall apply to
each chargeable square foot of the buildings so connected, including the
connecting structure or structures, even though one or more of the buildings so
connected is not itself a high-rise building.	5.	Where there exists beneath a
high-rise building a garage serving both that building and another building(s)
all of which are under common ownership, and the garage provides an exit(s)
through which any vehicle exiting the garage may pass, the charge per square
foot shall apply to all buildings and to the garage for the purposes of
computing the fee charged herein, even though one or more of the buildings
served by the garage is not itself a high-rise building.	6.	A minimal charge per
building shall be imposed irrespective of the area of said building, as set
forth in the schedule.	7.	A partially vacant building as defined herein shall be
subject to a minimum charge.
