                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

UNIFIED PROGRAM FACILITY PERMIT SCHEDULE OF FEES. (§ 57.14.10)

  UNIFIED PROGRAM FACILITY PERMIT SCHEDULE OF FEES.
	(Added by Ord. No. 172,043, Eff. 7/13/98.)	A.	Any business subject to the
provisions of this division, or any division of this Code related to the
inspection, enforcement, or administration of a unified program element, shall
pay a fee at the time of application, and annually thereafter, for the issuance
of the Unified Program Facility Permit, computed pursuant to the schedule set
forth in this section, to recover the costs to the City for the inspection,
enforcement, and for the administration of those provisions by the City of Los
Angeles Fire Department, and any other charges required by law.	B.	The fees
adopted by the Board pursuant to this section shall be imposed upon each Unified
Program Facility which is subject to the state and local provisions referred to
hereinabove, according to the most current records of the Fire
Department.	C.	The procedure to establish and amend the Schedule of Fees is as
follows:	1.	The Board, with the concurrence of the Director of the Office of
Administrative and Research Services  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,276, Eff.
6/25/00, Oper. 7/1/00.), shall determine on a regular basis the verifiable costs
to the City for the inspection and enforcement activities, and the
administration of the Unified Program elements, associated with the businesses
plus the applicable State service charges.  The Board shall use said costs to
develop or to amend a Schedule of Fees, hereinafter referred to as
“Schedule,” so as to recover City costs in connection with the
administration of this division and any other division of this Code for
inspection and enforcement activities, and the administration of the Unified
Program or any of the elements, associated with the businesses, and to collect
any State mandated fees.  Said Schedule shall be no higher than necessary to
recover such costs.  The Board may amend the Schedule based upon changes in
City costs at any time during the fiscal year.	2.	Upon adoption of the Schedule,
or any amendment thereto, the Board shall transmit the Board order to the Mayor
and the City Council for consideration.  The review and approval or disapproval
of the Schedule or any amendment thereto shall be accomplished in the same
manner as the review and approval of fees by Mayor and Council under the
provisions of Los Angeles Municipal Code Section 57.04.12C, provided, however,
that approval shall require a majority vote of the City Council and such
Schedule or any amendment thereto  shall not be deemed approved by the passage
of 60 days from the date of delivery to the Council without disapproval thereof,
and provided further that such Schedule or any amendment thereto  shall be
deemed disapproved if disapproved in writing by the Mayor within 60 days from
date of delivery and prior to any vote of approval by the Council.	D.	The
failure to pay any fee as required by this division shall cause that fee to
become delinquent and an additional sum equal to 50 percent of the fee so
required shall be imposed for such delinquency and become a part of the fee
required, provided however that the Department, with the approval of the City
Attorney, shall waive any or all of said 50 percent to the extent such exceeds
any extra costs caused by said delinquency.  The City Attorney may approve
waiver of penalty for good cause, based upon information supplied by the
business and by the Fire Department.  Good cause shall include any adequately
documented circumstance of extreme financial hardship arising from the
requirement that the 50 percent penalty be paid.  Minor discrepancies in
payments, charges for duplicates of Permits, and refunds of fees paid shall be
administered for purposes of this division in the same manner as provided for
Permits under Subsections E, H, and I of Section 57.04.12 of this Code.	E.	The
fees charged to recover City costs in connection with the inspection and
enforcement activities, and the administration of the provisions of this
division, associated with the businesses, shall be computed as
follows:	1.	Hazardous Waste Generators and Hazardous Waste Onsite Treatment
Activities.  The fees for the Hazardous Waste Generators and Hazardous Waste
Onsite Treatment Activities program element will be established by the Los
Angeles County Fire Department Health Hazardous Materials Division, and reviewed
and approved by the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors, for the inspection
and enforcement activities associated with that program element.  The Los
Angeles County Fire Department is a Participating Agency to the City of Los
Angeles Fire Department for the inspection and enforcement activities associated
with this program element. An additional administrative charge may be applied by
the Department for oversight activities relative to this program
element.	2.	Underground Storage Tanks.  In addition to the establishment of an
annual Permit fee for each underground storage tank and the administration of
Division 31 of this Code commencing with Section 57.31.30, an hourly rate shall
be established for the plan check and inspection activities associated with the
installation, modification, abandonment, and site mitigation of underground
storage tanks and facilities.	3.	Hazardous Materials Release Response Plan and
Inventory Program.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,273, Eff. 9/28/10.)  The fees
charged to recover City costs in connection with the administration of the
Hazardous Materials Release Response and Inventory Program, and the provisions
of Division 8 of the Code, shall be computed based on verifiable costs to the
City and specified in the “Schedule” adopted under Subsection C. of Section
57.14.10 of this Code.	(a)	If the total volume of each type of lubricating oil
handled at a single business facility is below 55 gallons, but the total volume
of all types of lubricating oil handled at that facility exceeds 275 gallons at
any one time, each type of lubricating oil shall be subject to disclosure and
business plan requirements.  For the purposes of this paragraph, “lubricating
oil” means any oil intended for the use in an internal combustion crankcase,
or the transmission, gearbox, differential, or hydraulic system of an
automobile, bus, truck, vessel, plane, heavy equipment, or other machinery
powered by an internal combustion or electric powered engine.  The term
“lubricating oil” does not include used oil, as defined in Subdivision (a)
of Section 25250.1 of the Health and Safety Code of the State of
California.	(b)	Physicians, dentists, podiatrists, veterinarians or pharmacists
who maintain oxygen or nitrous oxide at their offices or places of business in
quantities of not more than 1,000 cubic feet of each substance at any one time
shall be exempt from fee calculations with respect to such
substances.	4.	California Accidental Release Prevention Program.  The fees
charged to recover City costs in connection with the administration of the
California Accidental Release Prevention Program, shall include an annual
administrative fee, a risk factor fee, and an hourly inspection and review fee
to be charged as the service is provided.	5.	Aboveground Storage Tanks
Program.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,273, Eff. 9/28/10.)  In addition to the
establishment of an annual Permit fee for each aboveground storage tank and the
administration of Division 32 and other applicable sections of this Code
commencing with Section 57.31.30, an hourly rate shall be established for the
plan check and inspection activities associated with the installation,
modification, abandonment and site mitigation of aboveground storage tanks and
facilities.	6.	State Service Charges.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,273, Eff.
9/28/10.)  Additional State service charges for individual program elements as
established by the Secretary of the California Environmental Protection Agency
shall be collected from unified program facilities and forwarded to the State.
