                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PORTABLE FIRE EXTINGUISHERS FOR RESIDENTIAL OCCUPANCIES. (§ 57.140.16)

  PORTABLE FIRE EXTINGUISHERS FOR RESIDENTIAL OCCUPANCIES.	A.	At least one
Class 2A portable fire extinguisher shall be provided on each floor and
distributed throughout the building or premises in such a manner that the
horizontal distance of travel to the nearest extinguisher shall not exceed 75
feet.	EXCEPTIONS:	1.	Single family residential occupancies.	2.	The following
garden-type residential occupancies which have exits from each dwelling unit or
guest room opening directly on an open exit corridor, courtyard, driveway,
alley, or street shall not be required to have portable fire
extinguishers:	a.	Apartment houses containing 15 or less apartments and not over
two stories in height.	b.	Hotels containing 19 or less guest rooms and not over
two stories in height.	B.	One or more additional portable fire extinguishers of
suitable type and size shall be installed for protection of special hazards in
public portions of hotels and apartment houses as designated by the Chief. 
These shall include:	1.	Storage Areas: Extinguishers having a 2A
classification.	2.	Kitchens: Extinguishers having a l0B:C
classification.	C.	(Added by Ord. No. 170,954, Eff. 4/16/96.)  At least one
Class 2A10BC portable fire extinguisher shall be provided in each high-rise
residential occupancy unit in such a manner that the extinguisher is immediately
accessible and mounted adjacent to the main exit.	EXCEPTION:	High-rise
residential occupancy units which are protected by an approved automatic
sprinkler  system throughout.	D.	(Added by Ord. No. 170,954, Eff. 4/16/96.) 
Any person who violates this section shall be  punishable by at least a
mandatory minimum fine of $50.00, up to and not exceeding $1,000.00 or by
imprisonment in the County Jail for a period of not more than six (6) months, or
by both such fine and imprisonment.  Each person shall be guilty of a separate
offense for each and every day, or portion thereof, during which a violation of
any provision of this section is committed, continued, or permitted by such
person and shall be punishable accordingly.
