                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

NONAMBULATORY PERSONS. (§ 57.113.08)

  NONAMBULATORY PERSONS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 167,326, Eff. 11/16/91.)	A.	Housing:  The housing of
nonambulatory persons is prohibited above the first story of any institutional
building which is not of Type I or II construction as defined in Chapter 9 of
the L.A.M.C. (Building Code).	B.	Community Care Facilities:  (Amended by Ord.
No. 169,944, Eff. 8/20/94.)  Nonambulatory persons are prohibited in any
community care facility, except persons who require the use of mechanical aids,
such as wheelchairs, walkers, crutches, or canes and need no assistance from any
other person in exiting from a building.  All areas within the community care
facility must be approved in writing by the Chief for such use.  This approval
is limited to a maximum of six persons.	EXCEPTION:	Temporary care not to exceed
two weeks from date of becoming bedridden will be permitted to allow for the
removal of such person.  Rooms provided for the temporary care of nonambulatory
persons shall be approved for this purpose.	C.	Sleeping Rooms:  (Amended by
Ord. No. 169,944, Eff. 8/20/94.)  Sleeping rooms approved for nonambulatory
persons shall conform to the following minimum requirements:
	1.	The room shall be located on the ground floor except in buildings of Type I
or II construction or Type V one-hour construction as per Health and Safety
Code, Section 13131.5.	2.	Exit openings from rooms serving areas occupied or
used by bed or litter patients shall be such that ready passage of such
equipment is allowed, but in no case less than 44 inches in width.  Other exits
shall have a clear width of not less than 32 inches.  There shall be no
projections into the exit opening.	3.	An exit shall be provided directly or
semi-directly to the exterior of the building	D.	Passageways in Rooms: 
Passageways shall be maintained in rooms housing nonambulatory bedridden persons
in such a manner that it is possible to remove a bed from the room without
having to move any other bed or article of furniture, except small bed stands or
trays.  This shall not be required in semi-private rooms having an approved
capacity of only two beds.	E.	Ramps:  An approved ramp at least four feet wide
shall be provided to exit from the building to a public way.  Ramps may be
reduced to three feet wide when approved in writing by the Chief.
