                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

REMOTE PUMPING SYSTEMS. (§ 57.100.26)

  REMOTE PUMPING SYSTEMS.	A.	Pumps:(Amended by Ord. No. 167,326, Eff.
11/16/91.) Pumps shall be designed and installed in such a manner that no part
of the system shall be subjected to pressures in excess of the design working
pressure of the system.  Pumps installed above grade outside buildings shall be
located not less than six feet from lines of adjoining property that may be
built upon and not less than 10 feet from a property line that is adjacent to a
public way.  Pumps shall be located not less than 10 feet from buildings which
are not noncombustible or of fire-resistive construction nor less than five feet
from any building opening which is less than four feet above grade.  Pumps
installed above grade shall be substantially anchored and protected against
damage by vehicles.  An approved impact valve, designed to close automatically
in the event of severe impact or fire exposure, shall be installed in the supply
line at the base of each individual dispensing device.	The impact valve shall be
provided with an approved stabilizer assembly which is attached to the dispenser
supporting base.  The impact valve shall be installed so the shear section is
level with the top of the dispenser supporting base	B.	Pits: Pits for subsurface
pumps or piping manifolds of submersible pumps shall withstand the external
forces to which they may be subjected without damage to the tank, pump, or
piping.  If located directly over any underground tank there shall be at least
one foot of earth between the bottom of the pit and the top of the tank.  Pits
shall be no larger than necessary for inspection and maintenance and shall be
fitted with a tight fitting cover.	EXCEPTION:	One foot of earth between the
bottom of the pit and the top of the tank shall not be required for submersible
pumps located within the tank.	C.	Piping, Valves and Fittings: Piping, valves
and fittings in remote pumping systems shall conform to the requirements of
Division 39 of this article.	D.	Controls:	1.	A control shall be provided in each
dispensing unit that will allow the pump to operate only when the dispensing
nozzle is removed from its bracket and the control switch is manually activated.
The pump shall stop when all nozzles have been returned to their
brackets.	2.	The master switch or all individual pump circuit switches shall be
set in the “off” position before closing the service station for business at
any time.	3.  A supplementary disconnecting switch is required for auto fueling
stations.  This switch shall be easily and readily accessible from the
dispensing apparatus and shall be posted with a permanent sign with letters
one-inch high stating “GAS PUMP SHUTOFF.”  This switch must not be closer
than 15 feet nor farther than 100 feet from any dispenser.  (Added by Ord. No.
167,326, Eff. 11/16/91.)	E.	Testing: After completing the installation of a
remote pumping system, that portion of the piping system between the pump
discharge and the connection fitting to the dispensing unit shall be tested at
least 30 minutes at a pressure 50 percent above the design-operating pressure of
the system or at 75 P.S.I.G., which ever is greater.  All tests of new
construction shall be conducted in the presence of the Chief, and no subsurface
portion of the system shall be covered until it has been
accepted.	F.	Notification: Notification shall be given to the Chief prior to
abandonment or alteration of any part of a remote pumping system, except the
dispenser.PUBLIC GARAGES
