                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

FIRE SAFETY WATCH. (§ 57.10.21)

  FIRE SAFETY WATCH.
	(Added by Ord. No. 168,176, Eff. 9/20/92.)	Where the abatement project is 1,000
square feet or more, or whenever any of the fire protective coating of the
building’s structural members is removed, the following shall apply:	A.	A
person shall be selected by the contractor to function as a Fire Watch.  The
Fire Watch may perform only duties which are  specifically related to the
security and fire safety of the overall work area.	B.	The Fire Watch must
inspect every area of the work site every 30 minutes during working hours for
fire and life safety problems and shall continue such inspections a minimum of
30 minutes after the cessation of work.	C.	A fire and life safety log must be
maintained by the designated Fire Watch as follows:	1.	The log must be
maintained from the beginning of the abatement process until the final clean air
certification is received.	2.	When fire protective coating has been removed
from  structural members, the log shall be maintained until all respray is
complete.	3.	The log shall be used solely for the recording of fire  and life
safety information and shall be kept at the work site in the clean room at all
times.  It shall be available for review by Fire Department
representatives.	4.	The log shall be a bound notebook or three-ring binder and
shall contain the following information for each working day:	a.	The
date.	b.	The name and title of the assigned Fire Watch.	c.	The area assigned to
each Fire Watch.	d.	The actual start and stop time of each patrol and the name
of the Fire Watch person conducting that patrol.	e.	Entries describing any fire
or life safety problem that was found and how it was corrected.	f.	A brief
account of any fire incident, regardless of size, including all facts, names of
individuals involved, including witnesses, how it was extinguished, and the
probable cause.  Included shall be the time and method of Fire Department
notification.	g.	A statement at the conclusion of each work day, signed by the
on-site Safety Coordinator, confirming that a survey of the work site has been
made and any unsafe fire and life safety conditions have been rectified.	D.	In
the absence of a functioning, approved automatic fire detection system connected
to the building’s Central Alarm System in the area undergoing abatement or
respray, a Fire Watch shall be maintained on a 24-hour basis.  For this
purpose, elevator smoke detectors shall not be considered an approved fire
detection system.	E.	The Fire Watch shall continue until the final clean air
certification is received and all respray is completed in buildings where fire
protective coatings have been removed.	F.	In abatement areas protected by a
functioning, approved automatic fire detection system connected to the
building’s Central Alarm System, the Fire Watch may be discontinued 30 minutes
after the completion of each work day under the following conditions:	1.	The
building’s Central Alarm System must be monitored on a 24-hour basis either by
building security personnel or by an alarm company at a remote location.	2.	No
structure, separation, or barriers set up for containment or other purposes
shall impede the proper operation of any detection device or limit the intended
area the device was installed to monitor.	3.	Alternate fire alarm equipment
requires the approval of the Fire Department and the Department of Building and
Safety.	G.	Any work requiring the use of open flame shall require a Fire Watch
standing by with a 4A/60BC extinguisher until the completion of the project.
