                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

POSTING OR DISTRIBUTION OF FIRE SAFETY INFORMATION. (§ 57.112.05)

  POSTING OR DISTRIBUTION OF FIRE SAFETY INFORMATION.	A.	Posting in Guest Rooms
in Hotels and Motels:  Every owner, responsible resident, administrator, or
manager of a hotel or motel located in a building which is three or more stories
in height, shall cause the fire safety information specified in Subsection C of
this section to be posted and maintained in a clear and legible condition
affixed as a notice separate and apart from any other notice at a conspicuous
location on the inside surface of the main exit door or adjacent building
surface from each guest room. The information shall be printed on a durable
material and permanently affixed so as to be easily readable to the occupant of
that guest room.	B.	Distribution in Dwelling Units in Apartment Houses and
Condominiums:  Every owner, responsible resident, administrator. manager,
lessor or sublessor of an apartment house or condominium. any portion of which
is three or more stories in height, shall cause the fire safety information
specified in Subsection C. of this section to be distributed. The distribution
shall be to each occupant, tenant, buyer, lessee, or sublessee thereof, and
shall be accomplished prior to or at the time that person first occupies or
enters into possession of the premises.	Each distribution shall be accomplished
in such a manner to attract the attention of the occupant to the fire safety
information and to stress its importance in the event of a fire.	C.	Fire Safety
Information Required:	1.	Fire safety information shall be printed in a clear,
non-ornamental style of type which is 12 points or larger in size. The fire
safety information shall provide the reader with the following instructions on
actions to be taken in case of fire:	a.	How to call the Fire Department.	b.	How
to alert others and where to activate the fire alarm system.	c.	How to be
protected inside a room threatened by fire.	d.	How to evacuate the
building.	2.	Smoke detector information shall be included in fire safety
information and shall state the following: “SMOKE DETECTORS ARE PROVIDED FOR
YOUR PERSONAL SAFETY. ANYONE WHO WILLFULLY AND MALICIOUSLY TAMPERS WITH,
DAMAGES, BREAKS, OR REMOVES ANY REQUIRED SMOKE DETECTOR SHALL BE GUILTY OF A
MISDEMEANOR. ANY PERSON WHO WILLFULLY AND MALICIOUSLY SENDS. GIVES, TRANSMITS,
OR SOUNDS ANY FALSE ALARM OF FIRE IS GUILTY OF A
MISDEMEANOR.”	D.	Modification:  The Chief shall have the authority to provide
for and approve slight modifications in the fire safety information required to
be posted or distributed pursuant to this section. No modification shall be made
without prior approval of the Chief.	E.	Format:  A sample format of the fire
safety information required by this section shall be available for inspection at
the Fire Safety Education Unit of the Department and at locations designated by
the Chief.	F.	Language:  In the event a substantial number of the patrons and
occupants of any occupancy regulated by this section do not read or comprehend
the English language, the required fire safety information shall be printed in
both English and the language understood by the patrons and
occupants.	G.	Removal:  No person shall remove or deface any fire safety
information required in this Section except to repair or replace the notice or
the surface upon which it is affixed.	H.	(Added by Ord. No. 170,954, Eff.
4/16/96.)  Any person who violates this section shall be  punishable by at
least a mandatory minimum fine of $200.00, up to and not exceeding $1,000.00 or
by imprisonment in the County Jail for a period of not more than six (6) months,
or by both such fine and imprisonment.  Each person shall be guilty of a
separate offense for each and every day, or portion thereof, during which a
violation of any provision of this section is committed, continued, or permitted
by such person and shall be punishable accordingly.
