                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ADDITIONAL AUTHORITY TO RECOVER COSTS. (§ 57.21.08)

  ADDITIONAL AUTHORITY TO RECOVER COSTS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 175,596, Eff. 12/7/03.)	A fire on a parcel of land that is
not in compliance with Section 57.21.07 is a public nuisance.  If the City
incurs costs either in fighting a fire on a parcel of land that was not in
compliance with Section 57.21.07 at the time of the fire, or in fighting a fire
that spread from that parcel, then the City shall recover the costs of
abatement.	The costs of abatement shall include the costs of fighting the fire,
providing rescue or emergency medical services and providing support services,
including services from the Los Angeles Police Department and the Department of
Water and Power.  These abatement costs shall also include any costs incurred
by the City in using City and non-City personnel.	All costs incurred pursuant to
this section shall be a personal obligation against the person or persons,
including mortgagees, who have an obligation to comply with Section 57.21.07,
recoverable by the City in an action before any court of competent
jurisdiction.  These costs shall include an amount equal to 40 percent of the
cost to perform the actual work, but not less than the sum of $100.00, to cover
the City’s costs for administering any contract and supervising the work
required.  In addition to this personal obligation and all other remedies
provided by law, the City may collect any judgment, fee, cost, or charge,
including any permit fees, fines, late charges, or interest, incurred in
relation to the provisions of this section as provided in Los Angeles
Administrative Code Sections 7.35.1 through 7.35.8.	EXCEPTION:  If costs are
incurred by the City for or arising out of fighting a fire resulting from an
event or course of events that prompted a declaration of a state of emergency,
local emergency, war emergency or major disaster by the Mayor, the Governor, or
the President of the United States, then no lien shall be recorded against a
parcel of land pursuant to this section.
