                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

HAZARDOUS VEGETATION.* (§ 57.21.07)

  HAZARDOUS VEGETATION.*	A.	General:	1.	Prohibition.  No person who has any
ownership or possessory interest in, or control of a parcel of land shall allow
to exist thereon any hazardous refuse or hazardous weeds, trees, or other
vegetation, which, by reason of proximity to a building or structure,
constitutes a fire hazard. For purposes of this Section hazardous weeds, trees,
or other vegetation are defined as weeds, trees, or other vegetation which are
in such condition and location as to provide a ready fuel supply to augment the
spread or intensity of a fire.	2.	Specific Requirements.  (Amended by Ord. No.
171,551, Eff. 5/10/97.)  Each person who has any ownership or possessory
interest in, or control of, a parcel of land shall:	a.	Remove from the property
all dead trees, and maintain all weeds and other vegetation at a height of no
more than three inches, except as otherwise provided therein, if such weeds or
other vegetation are within 100 feet of a building or structure located on such
property or on adjacent property.  This requirement does not apply to the
maintenance of trees, ornamental shrubbery or plants which are used as ground
cover provided such do not provide a ready fuel supply to augment the spread or
intensity of a fire; nor does it apply to a native shrub provided such shrub is
trimmed up from the ground to one-third of its height, does not exceed 216 cubic
feet in volume, is spaced at a distance of not less than three times its maximum
diameter but not less than 18 feet from the edge of any other native shrub,
building or structure, and all dead wood and other combustible material within
18 feet of such shrub is removed except as provided above.	b.	Maintain trees
which are 18 feet or more in height and are within 100 feet of any building or
structure or within 10 feet of that portion of any highway, street, alley or
driveway which is improved or used for vehicle travel or other vehicular
purposes, so that no leafy foliage, twigs, or branches are within six feet of
the ground.  Trees and shrubs less than 18 feet shall be trimmed up 1/3 their
height.	c.	Remove any portion of a tree which extends within 10 feet of the
outlet of a chimney or stovepipe.	d.	Keep all trees, shrubs, and other growing
vegetation or portions thereof adjacent to or overhanging any building or
structure free of dead limbs, branches and other combustible matter.	e.	Maintain
five feet of vertical clearance between roof surfaces and portions of trees
overhanging any building or structure.	f.	Maintain the roofs of all buildings or
structures free of leaves, needles, twigs and other combustible
matter.	g.	Maintain all weeds and other vegetation located within 10 feet of any
combustible fence or an edge of that portion of any highway, street, alley or
driveway improved or used for vehicular travel or for other vehicular purposes
at a height of not more than three inches.  This shall not require the removal
of trees, ornamental shrubbery or plants which are used as ground cover,
provided such do not provide a ready fuel supply to augment the spread or
intensity of a fire, nor require the removal of native shrubs which meet the
requirements set forth in a. above.	h.	Clear all hazardous vegetation and other
combustible growth within the first 100 feet surrounding structures as required
by this Section.  Reduce the amount and/or modify the arrangement of hazardous
vegetation within the area comprising the second 100 feet for a total distance
of 200 feet from any structure unless otherwise specified by the Chief.  The
work required shall be set forth in the Notice of Noncompliance.	i.	Maintain all
landscape vegetation, including, but not limited to, conifers (e.g., cedar,
cypress, fir, juniper, and pine), eucalyptus, acacia, palm and pampas grass in
such a condition as not to provide an available fuel supply to augment the
spread or intensity of a fire.  The Notice of Noncompliance citing violations
of this subsection will specify that such landscape vegetation poses a threat to
buildings or structures in the vicinity and may cause them to be indefensible,
and shall describe the work required to be done.	Nothing contained in this
subsection shall be deemed to preclude the Chief from requiring more than the
minimum specific requirements set forth above when the Chief determines that
conditions exist which necessitate greater fire protection measures.	B.	(Amended
by Ord. No. 172,449, Eff. 3/19/99.)  A fee shall be charged for the inspection
of properties in the City of Los Angeles to determine whether a violation of
this section exists.  The fee shall be determined and established in the same
manner as provided for in Section 57.04.12C of this Code.  Provided, however,
that prior to any inspection occurring, the owner of record of each property
proposed to be inspected shall receive a notice advising the owner of the
intended inspection, the cost thereof, that penalties will be imposed for
nonpayment within the time period specified, and that the owner will not be
billed if the owner elects to follow the procedure, or any of the procedures,
described in the notice within the period of time specified in the notice.  Any
procedure which the property owner may elect to follow must be determined by the
Fire Department to be one which will provide adequate assurance to the
department that the property does not contain hazardous vegetation as defined in
Section 57.21.07, a copy of which definition shall also be set forth in the
notice, and which would not be unduly burdensome upon the property owner to
accomplish.  In the event an inspection occurs and the property owner is billed
the cost of inspection, a penalty shall be imposed if the fee is not paid within
the period of time specified in the billing document.  Such penalty shall be
two hundred percent of the fee imposed, or the cost of rebilling, whichever is
greater.	C.	(Subsec. B Redesignated C by Ord. No. 172,354, Eff. 1/30/99.)   The
Council finds that uncontrolled or high weeds, brush, plant material or other
items prohibited under Subsection A of this section increase the danger of fire
and thus constitute a public nuisance. If such condition exists, the Los Angeles
Fire Department shall give notice to the owner of record to abate the nuisance
within 15 days. The notice shall be either posted on the parcel or mailed to the
owner or both.	The notice shall state that the owner is required to abate the
nuisance and that if the nuisance is not abated by the date specified therein
(1) the City, or its contractor, may enter upon the parcel of land and remove or
otherwise eliminate or abate the nuisance, (2) that upon completion of such work
and cost thereof, including administrative costs, shall become a special
assessment against that parcel, and (3) that upon City Council confirmation of
the assessment and recordation of that order, a lien shall attach to the parcel
to be collected on the next regular property tax bill levied against the
parcel.	In the event the nuisance is not removed or otherwise eliminated or
abated by the date specified in the notice, the City, or its contractor, may
enter upon the parcel and remove or eliminate the nuisance. The City department
which causes the nuisance to be abated shall bill the owner of record for the
cost of removal, or other elimination or abatement thereof, including
administrative costs.  Such administrative costs shall be determined and
established in the same manner as provided for in Section 57.04.12C of this
Code.   An itemized written report showing the date and cost of abatement work
done by the City or its contractor, together with a proposed assessment with
respect to the parcel involved, shall be submitted by said department to the
Board of Fire Commissioners, hereinafter sometimes referred to as the
“Board”, for its consideration. (Para. Amended by Ord. No. 172,354, Eff.
1/30/99.)	The Board of Fire Commissioners shall thereupon cause a written notice
to be mailed to each owner of record. The notice shall identify the property in
question and shall state that:	1.	A nuisance, as identified in the notice, has
been abated on the property;	2.	A bill setting forth the cost of abatement has
been mailed to the owner and a copy of the report setting forth the cost of
abatement will be available for inspection at a specified location;	3.	The City
proposes to assess the owner for the cost of abatement;	4.	There will be a
public hearing with respect to the proposed assessment and the amount thereof at
the time, date and location designated in the notice;	5.	The owner may appear
before a hearing examiner at the time, date and location specified in the
notice, or may request to appear at an alternate later time and/or date and may
appear at that alternate time and/or date if so designated by the hearing
examiner. Upon any such appearance the owner will be given the opportunity to
present evidence to show cause why the property should not be assessed for the
cost of abatement or not be assessed in the amount specified in the bill;	6.	Any
written objections to the proposed assessment, and/or requests for an alternate
hearing date submitted to the hearing examiner must identify therein the parcel
of property proposed to be assessed. The notice, or copy thereof, may, but need
not, be used for that purpose and in the event the hearing examiner agrees to an
alternate time or date for the owner’s appearance, the Department will notify
the owner as to that alternate time and/or date; and that	7.	Written objections
to the proposed assessment may be submitted to the hearing examiner but must be
submitted prior to the commencement of the scheduled hearing.	On the date
specified in the notice or on any date thereafter to which continued, the Board
of Fire Commissioners, or its designee, shall act as the City’s hearing
examiner and shall conduct a hearing, consider the report setting forth the cost
of abatement, receive testimony from departmental personnel and others with
respect to the existence of a nuisance and cost of abatement, and consider the
testimony and other evidence of property owners who appear at the hearing.	After
the hearing has been closed, the hearing examiner shall prepare a report and
proposed decision to be presented to the City Council based upon all of the
evidence presented at the hearing. The report shall identify and include the
name and mailing address of the owner of each parcel from which a nuisance was
abated and for which a notice of hearing and proposed assessment had been given.
The hearing examiner shall include its findings, conclusions, recommendations
and proposed decision in its report to the Council with respect to each parcel,
and whether the proposed assessment should be (l) confirmed in the amount set
forth in the notice, (2) disallowed, or (3) confirmed in an amount less than
that set forth in the notice. In each event, the hearing examiner shall include
the reasons for its recommendations. The report shall fairly and accurately
represent the hearing proceedings, including the objections and other testimony
of each party who appeared at the hearing and the hearing examiner’s
evaluation thereof. Upon adoption of the report by the Board, as hearing
examiner, or concurrence in the report by the Board if the duly appointed
hearing examiner was other than the Board, the report and proposed decision with
respect to contested proposed assessments as well as the Board’s
recommendations and report with respect to all other proposed assessments shall
be transmitted to the City Clerk’s office for placement upon the Council
calendar not less than 15 days after its receipt. The proposed decision in each
such event shall be in such form that it may be adopted as the decision of the
City Council. If the hearing was conducted by other than the Board, and after a
review of the report the Board does not concur with the recommendations therein,
the Board may refer the matter back to the hearing examiner for further review,
and a hearing if necessary, or the Board may conduct a hearing de novo as the
hearing examiner, after due notice, and prepare its own decision and
recommendations for Council consideration.	Where there has been a contested
proposed assessment, the Board, on behalf of and in the name of the City
Council, shall concurrently cause a copy of the hearing examiner’s proposed
decision in the matter to be transmitted to each property owner that appeared at
the hearing, along with a Fire Department telephone number and location where a
copy of the hearing examiner’s complete report is available for inspection.
The Board shall include in its transmittal to property owners a notice of the
alternate actions available to the City Council as set forth herein below and a
notice that they may submit in writing to the City Clerk any information of
newly discovered or additional evidence within 15 days from the transmittal date
shown on the copy of the proposed decision. The City Council shall review the
report and proposed uncontested assessments transmitted by the Board and shall
also review the report, evidence, and proposed decision received from the
hearing examiner and shall by motion or resolution:	1.	Adopt the findings and
proposed decision and confirm the assessment; or	2.	Adopt findings and reduce
the assessment set forth in the proposed decision and confirm the assessment as
modified; or	3.	Determine to hear and decide the case upon the record, and any
newly discovered or additional evidence offered by the property owner, afford
the property owner the opportunity to present, at a date certain, either oral or
written argument before the Council, adopt findings, and based upon evidence
presented, determine and confirm the amount of any assessment in the matter;
or	4.	Refer the matter back to the hearing examiner if the Council is satisfied
that information of any material newly discovered or additional evidence has
been received, or that additional evidence or review is needed before a final
decision is made. If the matter is so referred, the City Clerk shall return the
complete file on that parcel and proposed assessment to the hearing examiner.
Upon receipt thereof, the hearing examiner shall reset the matter for hearing
any additional evidence, give due notice thereof, and conduct the hearing for
that purpose, and shall thereafter submit another report and proposed decision
to the City Council for its review and decision in the same manner as heretofore
described.	Whenever a report and proposed assessment decision provided for by
this code section has been calendared for Council consideration, the City Clerk
shall retain a copy of the report and have it available for public inspection
prior to and during the course of Council deliberation in the assessment
proceedings.	The action of the City Council adopting a proposed decision or a
modified proposed decision and an order confirming an assessment shall be
final.	D.	(Subsec. C. Redesignated D. by Ord. No. 172,354, Eff. 1/30/99.)  The
cost of removal, or other elimination or abatement of a nuisance from in front
of or on a parcel of land shall constitute a special assessment against that
parcel. After an assessment is made and confirmed by the City Council pursuant
to Subsection B of this section, a lien shall attach to the parcel upon
recordation in the office of the County Recorder of a copy of the order
confirming the assessment. The connection of such assessment and enforcement of
the lien shall be in the manner provided in Sections 39578 through 39588 of the
Government Code, incorporated herein by reference as set forth on the effective
date of this section or as said provisions may be amended or otherwise appear in
the law.	E.	(Subsec. D. Redesignated E. by Ord. No. 172,354, Eff. 1/30/99.)  As
an alternative method for the collection of the cost of abatement the City may
maintain an action of law thereof against the owner of the premises upon which
the nuisance was maintained in any court of competent jurisdiction. Such cost
shall be deemed a personal obligation of such owner.	Nothing contained in this
subsection shall be deemed to preclude the Chief from requiring more than the
minimum distances for firebreaks when the Chief determines that hazardous
conditions exist that necessitate greater fire protection measures.	*   Under
uncodified Ordinance No. 172,652, eff. 7/25/99, a moratorium has been imposed
until January 1, 2000, on the collection of any penalty imposed by the City for
late payment of the fee charged pursuant to Section 57.21.07 B. of the Los
Angeles Municipal Code for inspection of properties to determine the existence
of a violation of Section 57.21.07 of the Municipal Code.
