                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

CHRISTMAS TREES AND DECORATIONS. (§ 57.22.04)

  CHRISTMAS TREES AND DECORATIONS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 170,060, Eff. 11/14/94.)	A.	In buildings, tents, premises,
or portions thereof, to which the public is admitted or invited, Christmas trees
and decorations shall comply with the provisions of this
subsection.	1.	Christmas Trees – The base of cut natural trees shall be kept
in water or wet sand.	2.	Flame-retardant – Cut natural trees shall be
flame-retardant treated in accordance with Title 19, C.C.R., and a State Fire
Marshal Certificate of Flame Resistance Tag shall be attached near the
base.	3.	Decorations – All decorations used on Christmas trees shall be
non-combustible or flame-retardant and shall meet the requirements of Title 19,
C.C.R.  No open flame device shall be used. All electrical equipment shall be
of an approved type.	4.	Field Test for Fire Resistance – The Chief may, at any
time, take samples from any Christmas tree or decoration and field test the
specimen in accordance with L.A.F.D. Standard No. 66.  The field test shall be
performed in a safe location, using a common flame applied for 12 seconds of
exposure to the sample.  During the exposure, flaming shall not spread over the
complete length of the sample, or in excess of four inches from the bottom of
the sample for larger sample sizes.  Afterflame shall not be more than two
seconds. Materials which break and drip flaming particles shall be considered
hazardous.  Christmas trees or any decorations determined by the Chief to be a
fire hazard shall be immediately removed from the building.	5.	Location –
Christmas trees shall be located clear of exits and aisles and in an area
separated from ordinary combustibles by a distance not less than the height of
the tree.	6.	Stability – Christmas trees shall be secure and stable in their
position.	7.	Fire Protection – An approved fire extinguisher in accordance
with Division 140 of this article shall be available.	8.	Permit – A Special
Permit shall be required for any storage, display, sale, or other use of
Christmas trees within buildings where more than 10 trees are
located.	9.	Artificial Trees – Manufactured trees which are constructed of
metallic, non-combustible or fire-resistive materials may be used.  Artificial
and live Christmas trees are subject to field test procedures.	10.	Lighting –
Lighting of metallic or otherwise electrically conductive trees shall be done a
minimum of six feet away from the tree and plainly visible from the area used to
light the tree.  All lighting used for illumination of trees shall be
Underwriters Laboratories listed or other approved type.	B.	Every person
conducting, managing or operating a Christmas tree sales business, whether
exclusively or in conjunction with the sale of other goods, wares or
merchandise, shall attach, or cause to be attached, a Fire Safety Tag to each
tree greater than two feet tall and having a base greater than one inch in
diameter prior to the sale of such tree.  The tag shall be securely affixed to
the tree and shall have the following statements, as a minimum, printed on
it:	1.	Make a fresh cut on the bottom of the tree; place in a reservoir tree
stand filled with water.	2.	Water Christmas tree daily.	3.	Test your smoke
detectors.	4.	Never use lights with frayed cords or empty
sockets.	5.	Mini-lights are safest; they produce less heat.	6.	Do not use
candles on or near tree.	7.	Turn off all Christmas lights prior to leaving your
home or going to bed.	8.	Safely dispose of your tree before it becomes
dangerously dry.	9.	Never burn your tree or any part of it in a
fireplace.	10.	Pick-up/drop-off disposal services offered by the Bureau of
Sanitation, Phone No. ___________________.	The above-referenced telephone number
shall be obtained from the Fire Department.  All statements shall be on one
side of the tag.  In the event a language other than English is the primary
language of the majority of persons residing within one-half mile of the
location of the business, the same statements shall be printed on the reverse
side of the tag in that language.  Tags shall have a minimum width of 3 inches
and a minimum length of 7 inches.  The text of the tag shall be at least 12
points in size in conventional font.  Tags must be made of 30 lb. weight stock
paper or equivalent.  Each tag shall have a hole at the top to receive a
wire-tie, plastic tie or other material that can be used to attach the tag
securely to the tree.
