                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

UNAUTHORIZED RELEASE. (§ 57.31.05.2)

.  UNAUTHORIZED RELEASE.
	(Added by Ord. No. 172,043, Eff. 7/13/98.)	A.	No person shall cause or allow
the storage of hazardous substances in a manner which causes an unauthorized
release of hazardous substances or poses a significant risk of such unauthorized
release.	B.	Reporting – Any person who has knowledge of an unauthorized
release of a hazardous substance shall notify the Chief immediately.  A written
report shall be submitted by the owner, operator, or permittee within 10 days
after the escape of a hazardous substance from a primary container when the
unauthorized release:	1.	Has occurred or has the potential to enter
groundwater.	2.	Could endanger life, property, or the environment.	3.	Is
contained by secondary containment.	The written report shall provide information
to the Department relating to the ability of the permittee to contain and
dispose of the hazardous substance, the estimated time it will take to achieve
this, and the degree of hazard created.  The Chief may verify that the
hazardous substance is being contained and appropriately disposed of.  If at
any time it is determined that the permittee is not adequately containing and
disposing of such hazardous substance, the Chief shall have the power and
authority to initiate and direct an emergency response in order to protect the
public safety, health and welfare, public and private property, wildlife, marine
fisheries, wet lands or ocean resources, or natural environment.  The permittee
shall be liable for reimbursement to the Department for all emergency response
costs incurred.	C.	Cleanup – The owner, operator, or permittee shall be
responsible to take all necessary steps to ensure the immediate containment and
cleanup of any unauthorized release of a hazardous substance.  If an
unauthorized release has entered or has the potential to enter groundwater, the
Chief shall immediately notify the California Regional Water Quality Control
Board and shall request that they assume lead agency status for the
investigation and abatement of the release.ABOVEGROUND TANKS
