                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SECONDARY CONTAINMENT. (§ 57.31.33)

  SECONDARY CONTAINMENT.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 172,043, Eff. 7/13/98.)	A.	Every new facility shall be
designed and constructed with secondary containment.  Secondary containment
shall be capable of being integrity tested.	B.	Secondary containment shall be
compatible with any hazardous substance contained within a primary tank or
within several primary tanks served by a single secondary containment. 
Hazardous substances shall not be intermixed so as to cause a fire, explosion,
or the production of toxic or poisonous gas.  Hazardous substances which are
not compatible with each other shall have separate primary tank and secondary
containment systems.	C.	Secondary containment shall be large enough to contain
at least 100 percent of the volume of the primary tank, and be structurally
capable of storing the hazardous substances for the maximum anticipated period
of time necessary for the safe recovery of any released hazardous
substance.	D.	Secondary containment which includes multiple primary tanks shall
be capable of containing at least 150 percent of the volume of the largest
primary tank, and be structurally capable of storing the hazardous substance for
the maximum anticipated period of time necessary for the safe recovery of any
released hazardous substance.	E.	When there is a possibility of water intruding
into the space between the primary tank and secondary containment by
precipitation, infiltration, or other means, the facility shall be designed and
constructed with the capability to monitor and remove such water
intrusion.	F.	Secondary containment systems shall have a nationally recognized
testing laboratory listing and a L.A.F.D. Equipment Approval.	G.	Secondary
containment shall be provided under the dispenser.  Containment will provide a
mechanical or electrical device (float valve or probe) to disable the flow of
product to that dispenser.	H.	Tank Opening Sumps must have electronic monitoring
probes.
