                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

MONITORING SYSTEMS. (§ 57.31.39)

  MONITORING SYSTEMS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 172,043, Eff. 7/13/98.)	A.	Requirements – Every
underground tank shall be provided with an automatic, continuous, electronic
monitoring system designed and constructed to be capable of detecting the
release of the stored hazardous substance.	NOTE:	All systems shall be certified
annually to ensure operation meets manufacturer’s
specifications.	EXCEPTION:	Existing underground tanks which are in a concrete
vault and the exterior surface of the tanks are accessible to visual
inspection.  Visual inspections shall be conducted at intervals specified by
the Chief.	1.	All methods of monitoring, detection, and leak interception shall
be certified by a California Registered Engineer and be approved by the
Chief.	2.	Monitoring systems shall:	a.	Be connected to alarm panels which shall
have both visual and audible alarms incorporated.  Audibility shall be 10
decibels above ambient sound levels, but not less than 85 decibels.	b.	Be
electrically approved by Underwriters Laboratory for intrinsic safety.	c.	Have
all sensing components and wiring supervised.	d.	Be tamper proof.	e.	Have
L.A.F.D. Equipment Approval.	f.	Have a button to test continuity located on the
face of the panel.	3.	Monitoring system annunciator panels shall be installed in
locations where responsible personnel are normally in attendance during
operation of the facility.  These panels shall not be installed in closets or
storage rooms nor in other isolated areas.	4.	Written operating instructions and
procedures shall be permanently affixed to the face of the monitoring system
annunciator panel giving a step-by-step explanation of the procedures to be used
when an unauthorized release occurs and when testing the monitoring system for
continuity.  If space on panel face does not permit this, a durable permanently
affixed placard located immediately adjacent to the panel, and clearly visible
will be accepted.	5.	All monitoring systems must be field performance tested for
the product being monitored.  Appropriate tracer substances may be used in
testing vadose systems.	B.	Approved Methods of Monitoring:	Any or all of the
following methods of monitoring may be incorporated into a monitoring
system:	1.	Secondary Containment Monitoring.	a.	When a Secondary Containment
Monitoring System is used, the monitoring device(s) shall be capable of
detecting a leak of the product stored and water.	b.	All Secondary Containment
shall be installed in a manner that allows servicing and liquid removal.	2.	Tank
Level Monitoring.	a.	Must go into leak detect mode a minimum of once every
24-hour period.  If the test is aborted for any reason, the system must
automatically re-test until test is complete.  Confirmed leaks shall be
reported immediately.  Tank Level Monitoring, as a stand-alone monitoring
system, can only be used in Underground Tanks that can be shut down for a
six-hour time period to allow for completion of the test.  Turbines must be
disabled by the system during the test.  A two-hour quiescent period is
required prior to testing and after product delivery.  If product is introduced
or extracted due to delivery, dispensing, or theft, the test shall automatically
abort.  The retest shall not begin until  two hours after product introduction
and 1 one-hour after product extraction,	or;	b.	Must be an approved system
capable of detecting a leak rate of .2 gallons per hour (gph) with a minimum
probability of detection of 95% and a maximum probability of false alarm of
5%.	c.	Must have capability and accuracy substantiated by a nationally
recognized independent testing laboratory.	3.	Electronic Product Line Leak
Detection.	a.	Shall cause complete turbine shut down based on a leak rate of not
greater than .05 gph.	b.	Shall compensate for vapor and entrapped
air.	4.	Alternate methods of monitoring will be reviewed and evaluated by the
Fire Department.
