                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

EXIT SIGNS AND DIRECTIONAL EXIT SIGNS. (§ 57.33.15)

  EXIT SIGNS AND DIRECTIONAL EXIT SIGNS.	Persons owning or managing any
occupancy shall provide exit signs and directional exit signs as
follows:	A.	Location:  Exit signs, or directional exit signs, or both, shall be
provided at every exit door, at the intersection of corridors, at exit stairways
or ramps and at such other locations and intervals as are necessary to provide
the occupants with knowledge of at least two means of egress. Exit signs need
not be provided for the following:	1.	Dwellings units in Group R, Division 1
Occupancies.	2.	Group R, Division 3 Occupancies.	3.	Main exterior exit doors
which obviously and clearly are identifiable as exits, when approved by the
Chief.	B.	Graphics:  Exit signs and directional exit signs shall have block
letters at least six inches in height with a stroke of not less than 3/4 inch.
Letter shall be of such color or design as to be in strong contrast to the
background of the sign. Arrows or other directional symbols shall be of equal
visibility to that stipulated herein for letters.	C.	Illumination:  Whenever
the building is occupied, exit signs and directional exit signs shall be lighted
so that they are clearly visible. Electrical internally lighted exit signs shall
comply with the requirements of Chapter 9 of the L.A.M.C. (Electrical
Code).	1.	Separate Circuits:  Exit signs and exit directional signs shall be
electrically illuminated and the two lamps shall be energized from separate
circuits, one of which shall be used only for such signs, separated from an
other circuits in the building, and independently controlled, when the capacity
of any occupancy is as follows:	a.	Group A, B, and E Occupancies with an
occupant load of 300 or more persons.	b.	Group H and R, Division 1 Occupancies
with an occupant load of 101 or more persons.	c.	Group D and Ioccupancies with
an occupant load of 50 or more persons.	2.	Illumination shall normally be
provided by the premises wiring system. In the event of failure of this system,
illumination shall be automatically provided from an emergency system in
accordance with Title 19 and 24, C.A.C., when applicable, or Chapter 9, L.A.M.C.
(Electrical Code).	D.	Not An Exit: Any door in a passageway or stairshaft which
is not an exit, and which is so located as likely to be mistaken for an exit,
shall be identified by a sign reading “NO EXIT,” or a sign indicating its
actual use, such as “TO BASEMENT,” “STOREROOM,” “BOILER ROOM,”
“ELECTRICAL ROOM” or other applicable sign.	E.	Announcement of Exits and
Posting of Emergency Exit Plans in Assemblage Occupancies (50 or more): 
(Amended by Ord. No. 175,429, Eff. 9/28/03.)	1.	Announcement of Exit
Locations:	(a)	An announcement shall be made in the main area of the event at
the beginning of each public assemblage.  It shall include the locations and
number of the exits.  For those assemblages extending over two hours in length
and not having a definite ending time, the announcement shall be made at the
beginning and at least every two hours thereafter.	(b)	The exit locations must
be visible to the occupants as the announcement is being made.  This may be
accomplished by highlighting the exits using spotlights, flashlights, security
officers or event personnel to point out the exits, lowering the houselights to
highlight the exit signs, or a large visual screen showing all exits or by using
other appropriate measures.	2.	Posting of an Emergency Exit Plan.  These
occupancies will be required to post an emergency exit floor plan on a diagram
demonstrating a person’s present location (i.e., “You Are Here”), exit
locations and locations of exit corridors.  These plans must be posted in the
restrooms, main lobby areas adjacent to food and gift venues, entrances and
other areas where the public congregates.	F.	Any person who violates this
section shall be punishable by a fine, with a mandatory minimum of $100.00, up
to and not exceeding $1,000.00 or by imprisonment in the County Jail for a
period of not more than six months, or by both a fine and imprisonment.  Each
person shall be guilty of a separate offense for each and every day, or portion
of a day, during which a violation of any provision of this section is
committed, continued, or permitted by a person and shall be punishable
accordingly.  (Added by Ord. No. 175,429, Eff. 9/28/03.)
