                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

STAIRWAY IDENTIFICATION SYSTEM. (§ 57.33.17)

  STAIRWAY IDENTIFICATION SYSTEM.	A.	Every person owning or managing a building
three or more stories in height shall provide and maintain an approved stairway
identification sign at each floor level landing in every stairshaft. The sign
shall indicate the floor level, the lower and upper terminations of the
stairway, whether or not there is roof access, and the identification of the
stairway.	B.	Stairway identification signs shall conform to the following
specifications:	1.	Sign shall be square in shape with a minimum dimension of 12
inches.	2.	Numbers and letters on the sign shall be of a block style on a
contrasting background.	3.	The numbers and/or letters indicating the floor level
shall be placed in the middle of the sign and shall be at least five inches in
height with a three-fourths inch stroke.	4.	The following numbers and letters
shall be located on the sign as indicated below, and shall be at least one inch
in height with a one-fourth inch stroke:	a.	The numbers and letters indicating
the lower and upper terminations of the stairway shall be at the top of the
sign.	b.	The wording “Roof Access” or “No Roof Access” shall be below
the lower and upper terminations designation and above the floor
designation.	c.	Stairways shall be identified consecutively such as “Stair
1”, “Stair 2”, etc. This designation shall be located at the bottom of the
sign.	5.	Signs shall be durable and installed or applied in a permanent manner
on the stairshaft wall adjacent to the stairshaft door in a location which is
clearly visible whether the door is in the open or closed position.	6.	The
bottom of the sign shall be five feet above the floor of the stairway
landing.	C.	The Chief shall have the authority to determine the floor level
number placed on the sign so as to standardize the signs installed in stairways.
Floor level numbers placed on such signs shall conform to the Chief’s
specifications.	D.	Any person who violates this section shall be  punishable by
at least a mandatory minimum fine of $200.00, up to and not exceeding $1,000.00
or by imprisonment in the County Jail for a period of not more than six (6)
months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.  Each person shall be guilty of
a separate offense for each and every day, or portion thereof, during which a
violation of any provision of this section is committed, continued, or permitted
by such person and shall be punishable accordingly.  (Added by Ord. No.
170,954, Eff. 4/16/96.)
