                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

LOADING AND UNLOADING. (§ 57.38.08)

  LOADING AND UNLOADING.	A.	Transferring of liquids:  Flammable and
combustible liquids shall not be transferred from any tank vehicle except into
aircraft fuel tanks, approved atmospheric tanks, or portable tanks and
carboys.	EXCEPTION:
	Transfer of flammable and combustible liquids from a tank vehicle into fuel
tanks of marine craft (for purposes of auxiliary power only), motor vehicles, or
motor equipment may be performed under Permit from the Department pursuant to
Division 5 of this article, provided:	1.	The transfer operation is not performed
where the public is invited or where there is unusual exposure to life and
property.	2.	The tank vehicles are approved by the Department.	3.	The tank
vehicle’s specific function is that of supplying fuel to fuel tanks.	4.	The
dispensing hose does not exceed 50 feet in length.	5.	The dispensing nozzle is
an approved automatic closing type.	B.	Shut Down:  Motors of tank vehicles
shall be shut off during the making and breaking of the hose connections and
during the loading and unloading operation, except when the loading or unloading
is done with the use of transfer apparatus deriving its power from the motor of
the tank vehicle.	C.	Approved Transfer Apparatus:  Transfer apparatus on tank
vehicles shall be of an approved type. Permits for tank vehicles which are
equipped with transfer apparatus, or for a transfer apparatus used in connection
with a tank vehicle, shall specifically state the scope and extent of usage of
such transfer apparatus, and in no event shall the apparatus be used for any
purpose other than that described in the Permit.	D.	Bonding:  All tank vehicles
loading or unloading Class I, II or IIIA liquids shall at all times be
electrically bonded to the fm pipe from the loading rack or to the fill pipe of
the tank to which it is filling. Dome covers shall be opened or closed only when
bonding wire or cable is properly attached.	E.	Discharge Hoses:  All hose
fittings shall be liquid-tight. When multiple hoses are used, the tank vehicle
shall not be stationed on any public street, alley, walk or other public
thoroughfare. Multiple hoses are permitted for gravity discharge
only.	F.	Outage:  A cargo tank or compartment thereof used for the
transportation of flammable liquids, combustible liquids, or asphalt shall not
be loaded liquid full. Tanks or compartments shall have outage (vacant space) of
not less than 1% of total tank volume when filled.	G.	Dome Covers:  Dome covers
shall be closed and latched while the tank vehicle is in transit.	H.	Overfill
Protection:  The driver, operator, or attendant of any tank vehicle shall,
before making delivery to any tank or transferring from one tank to another,
determine by a suitable gauging device the unfilled capacity of such tanks.
