                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DIKED AREAS. (§ 57.31.12)

  DIKED AREAS.	Where control of accidental discharge is by means of a diked
area, such diked area shall comply with the provisions of this section.	A.	The
net volumetric capacity available to a tank or group of tanks within a common
diked area shall be not less than 100 percent of the largest tank enclosed by
the diked area.	1.	The volume of the largest tank up to the required height of
the dike wall may be considered as part of the available capacity of the diked
area.	2.	No part of the volume of tanks other than the largest tank shall be
considered as part of the available capacity of the diked area.	3.	Where a
separate impounding basin is used to reduce the required capacity of a diked
area, drainage sufficient to prevent overflow of the dike and effective control
of flow shall be provided.	4.	The volumetric capacity of a single impounding
basin may be applied to reduce the required capacity of each of the diked areas
draining to it.	B.	Walls of the diked area shall be of earth, steel, concrete,
or solid masonry, and shall be designed to be liquid-tight and to withstand a
full hydrostatic head.  Earthen walls three feet or more in height shall have a
flat section at the top not less than two feet wide.  Earthen walls shall have
a minimum slope of one and one-half feet horizontal to one foot vertical and
shall be well compacted and coated with concrete, asphalt, or other material
approved by the Chief.  (Amended by Ord. No. 169,944, Eff. 8/20/94.)	C.	The
walls of the diked area shall be restricted to an average height of six feet
above interior grade. The minimum distance between the inside toe of any dike
wall and the shell of any tank shall be not less than five feet. Concrete
footing for steel, concrete, or solid masonry walls may project into this area,
provided the top of the footing does not project above interior grade.	D.	Any
group of tanks containing noncompatible materials shall have separate diked
areas designed to avoid potential intermixing.	E.	Each diked area containing two
or more tanks shall be subdivided, preferably by drainage channels or at least
by intermediate curbs, in order to prevent spills from endangering adjacent
tanks within the diked area as follows:	1.	When storing normally stable liquids
in vertical cone roof tanks constructed with weak roof-to-shell seams or
approved floating roof tanks, or when storing crude petroleum in producing areas
in any type of tank, one subdivision shall be provided for each group of tanks
(no tank exceeding 10,000 barrels capacity) having an aggregate capacity not
exceeding 15,000 barrels.	2.	When storing normally stable liquids in tanks not
covered in Subsection 1 of this section, one subdivision shall be provided for
each tank in excess of 2,500 barrels, and one subdivision shall be provided for
each group of tanks (no tank exceeding 2,500 barrels capacity having an
aggregate capacity not exceeding 3,750 barrels.	3.	Whenever two or more tanks,
any one of which is over 150 feet in diameter, are located in a common diked
area, intermediate dikes shall be provided between adjacent tanks to hold at
least 10 percent of the capacity of the tank so enclosed, not including the
volume displaced by the tank.	4.	The intermediate curbs of drainage channels
shall be located between tanks so as to take full advantage of the available
space with due regard for the individual tank capacities. Where intermediate
curbs are used, they shall be not less than 18 inches in height, and 
construction requirements shall be the same as for dike walls.	F.	Within each
dike area, drainage shall be provided at a consistent slope of not less than one
percent but not more than five percent, away from tanks toward a sump, drainage
system, or other safe means of disposal located at the greatest practical
distance from the tank. Such drains shall normally be controlled in a manner so
as to prevent hazardous substances from entering natural water courses, public
sewers, or public drains. Control of drainage shall be accessible under fire
conditions from outside the diked area.	G.	No dry vegetation or combustible
material not a part of the permanent installation nor any empty or full drum or
barrel shall be permitted within a diked area.
