                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

EXIT AISLES AND SEATING ARRANGEMENTS. (§ 57.33.18)

  EXIT AISLES AND SEATING ARRANGEMENTS.	A.	General:  Every portion of every
building in which are installed seats, tables, merchandise, equipment, or
similar materials shall be provided with aisles leading to an exit.	1.	Width. 
Every aisle shall be not less than three feet wide if serving only one side, and
not less than three feet six inches wide if serving both sides. Such minimum
width shall be measured at the point farthest from an exit, cross aisle, or
foyer, and shall be increased by one and one-half inches for each five feet in
length toward the exit, cross aisle, or foyer. Such determined width shall be
the minimum required width along the entire length of the aisle.	2.	Distances to
Nearest Exit.  In areas occupied by seats and in Group A Occupancies without
seats, the line of travel to an exit door by an aisle shall be not more than 150
feet. Such travel distance may be increased to 200 feet if the building is
provided with an approved automatic sprinkler system.	3.	Cross Aisles.  Aisles
shall terminate in a cross aisle, foyer, or exit. The width of the cross aisle
shall be not less than the sum of the required width of the widest aisle, plus
50 percent of the total required width of the remaining aisles leading thereto.
Aisles shall not provide a dead end greater than 20 feet in length.	B.	Spacing
of Tables:	1.	Tables shall be arranged so that the seating edges of adjacent
tables are not less than 54 inches apart. Rectangular tables arranged to
accommodate seating on one side only shall have not less than 36 inches between
adjacent table edges.	2.	Every chair shall be within 20 feet of an
aisle.	EXCEPTION to 2. above:	Group A Occupancies, including their exit systems
which are provided with an automatic sprinkler system and a fire alarm system
equipped with product of combustion smoke detectors, may be exempt from this
requirement with the Chiefs approval.	3.	For the purpose of taking measurements
of drawing plans, the back of an occupied chair shall be assumed to be a minimum
of 18 inches from the table seating edge.	C.	Loose Chair Seating:  Areas
utilizing chairs for theater type seating shall comply with the
following:	1.	The spacing of rows of chairs from back to back shall be not less
than 33 inches. There shall be a space of not less than 12 inches between the
back of each seat and front of the seat immediately behind.	2.	Seats shall be
arranged so that there shall be not more than six intervening seats between any
seat and the nearest aisle.	3.	All loose seats, folding chairs, or similar
seating facilities that are not fixed to the floor shall be bonded together in
groups of not less than three.	EXCEPTION:	When not more than 299 such seats,
chairs, or facilities are provided bonding thereof may be
deleted.	D.	Displays:  In areas used for display of equipment, booths, or
similar uses, aisles shall be provided as follows:	1.	Areas containing less than
5,000 square feet of usable floor space shall be provided with six feet wide
aisles arranged so as not to exceed the distance of travel requirements of this
section.	2.	Areas containing 5,000 to 30,000 square feet of usable floor space
shall be provided with eight feet wide aisles arranged so as to not exceed the
distance of travel requirements of this section.	3.	Areas containing more than
30,000 square feet of usable floor space shall be provided with 10 feet wide
aisles arranged so as to not exceed the distance of travel requirements of this
section.	4.	Aisles that are provided for the convenience of persons in
attendance and are not required for exit purposes may be reduced below the
required aisle width by two feet.
