                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

EXIT DOORS. (§ 57.33.07)

  EXIT DOORS.	No person shall install, alter, or maintain any exit door that
does not comply with this section, Title 19 and 24, C.A.C., or Chapter 9 of the
L.A.M.C. (Building Code).	A.	General: No person shall construct, alter, or
maintain any door as an exit from any portion of any building, except a door
which can be opened from the inside without the use of a key, tool, or special
knowledge or effort, as determined by the Chief.	EXCEPTION:	This subsection
shall not apply to main entrance exterior exit doors in a Group B Occupancy
where there is a readily visible, durable sign on or adjacent to the door
stating “THIS DOOR TO REMAIN UNLOCKED DURING BUSINESS HOURS.” The sign shall
be in letters not less than one inch high on a contrasting background. The use
of this exception may be revoked by the Chief.	B.	Swing:  Exit doors shall
swing in the direction of exit travel when serving:	1.	Any assembly
occupancy.	2.	Any hazardous area or Group H Occupancy.	3.	Any building or
portion of a building with an occupant load of 50 or more.	C.	Double-acting
Doors:  Double-acting doors shall not be used as exits when any of the
following conditions exist:	1.	The occupant load served by the door is 100 or
more.	2.	The door is part of a fire assembly.	3.	The door is part of a smoke and
draft-control assembly.	4.	Panic hardware is required or provided on the door.	A
double-acting door shall be provided with a view panel of not less than 200
square inches.	D.	Width and height:  Every required exit doorway shall be of a
size so as to permit the installation of a door not less than three feet in
width and not less than six feet eight inches in height. When installed, exit
doors shall be capable of opening so that the clear width of the exit not less
than 32 inches.	E.	Door Leaf Width:  A single leaf of an exit door shall not
exceed our feet in width.	F.	Special Doors:  Revolving, sliding, and overhead
doors shall not be used as required exits.	EXCEPTION:	Power operated doors
conforming to Title 24, C.A.C.	G.	Door Identification:  Exit doors shall be so
marked that they are easily distinguishable from the adjacent
construction.	H.	Type of Latch:  Manually operated edge or surface mounted
flush bolts and surface bolts are prohibited. When exit doors are used in pairs
and approved automatic flush bolts are used, the door leaf having the automatic
flush bolts shall have no door knob or surface-mounted hardware. The unlatching
of any leaf shall not require more than one operation.	I.	Obstruction:  No
person shall wedge, block, chain, obstruct, or otherwise cause or allow the
impairment of the operation of any exit door.	J.	(Added by Ord. No. 170,954,
Eff. 4/16/96.)  Any person who violates this section shall be  punishable by
at least a mandatory minimum fine of $500.00, up to and not exceeding $1,000.00
or by imprisonment in the County Jail for a period of not more than six (6)
months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.  Each person shall be guilty of
a separate offense for each and every day, or portion thereof, during which a
violation of any provision of this section is committed, continued, or permitted
by such person and shall be punishable accordingly.	EXCEPTION:	Exit doors from
buildings or rooms having an occupant load of 10 or less may be provided with a
night latch, deadbolt or security chain, provided such devices are openable from
the inside without the use of a key or tool and mounted at a height not to
exceed 48 inches above the floor.
