                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

OBSTRUCTION OF EXITS AND AISLES. (§ 57.33.11)

  OBSTRUCTION OF EXITS AND AISLES.	A.	No person shall block, impede, or
obstruct any exit to a public way or any access to a building, structure or
premises, in such a manner as to prevent or interfere with the use of such exits
or access by any person who is exiting or entering said occupied building,
structure, or premises.	B.	In every building other than single family dwellings,
there shall be maintained at all times, one unobstructed aisle which leads to
each required exit. Each required aisle shall have a width equal to the minimum
required in other sections of this article or when not specified, the minimum
width shall be 44 inches.	C.	An exit walkway with a minimum width of 44 inches
shall be maintained continuously to a public way.	D.	Whenever the Chief
determines that exit paths to a public way need to be clearly delineated to
safeguard and preserve the exit paths, he Chief may require the exit paths to be
protected and identified by painted lines, railings, barrier posts, walks or
other approved means.	E.	No person shall park any vehicle, or place any power
truck, hand dolly, delivery rack, refuse or waste container, or any other object
in an exit, or in any other manner so as to obstruct the exit.	F.	No person
shall store or maintain any hazardous material, or other material of any kind,
adjacent to any exit in a manner which would obstruct the exit or elevator, or
render egress hazardous in case of fire or any other emergency.	G.	(Added by
Ord. No. 170,954, Eff. 4/16/96.)  Any person who violates this section shall
be  punishable by at least a mandatory minimum fine of $100.00, up to and not
exceeding $1,000.00 or by imprisonment in the County Jail for a period of not
more than six (6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.  Each person
shall be guilty of a separate offense for each and every day, or portion
thereof, during which a violation of any provision of this section is committed,
continued, or permitted by such person and shall be punishable accordingly.
