                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

EMERGENCY PLANNING AND EVACUATION REQUIREMENTS FOR HIGH-RISE BUILDINGS. (§
57.33.19)

  EMERGENCY PLANNING AND EVACUATION REQUIREMENTS FOR HIGH-RISE BUILDINGS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 180,648, Eff. 6/1/09.)	A.	Creation and Filing of Emergency
Plan.  Every owner, manager, operator, administrator, and tenant of a new or
existing high-rise building shall, in cooperation with the Fire Department,
establish, implement, maintain and update an Emergency Plan for the building
that complies with, but is not necessarily limited to, the following:	1.	The
owner shall electronically submit the Emergency Plan annually to the Fire
Department and maintain a current hard copy on the premises.  Prior to each
annual submittal, the owner shall also review the Emergency Plan and as a result
of that review shall update the Emergency Plan as necessary to ensure that it is
accurate and complete.  All Emergency Plan transactions shall be electronically
submitted by means of a Fire Department approved method.  The updated Emergency
Plan shall be submitted to the Fire Department within ten days of its
completion.  If the owner determines after an annual review, that the Emergency
Plan does not require updating, the owner shall so inform the Fire Department in
writing as soon as that determination is made.  This requirement does not
preclude an owner from reviewing and updating the Emergency Plan more frequently
than  annually.	2.	Any changes to the lists of Private First Responders,
Essential Building Personnel, or emergency contact telephone numbers shall be
submitted to the Fire Department within ten days of the date of the
change.	3.	The Emergency Plan shall be made available upon request to personnel
of the Fire Department.  Upon any change of ownership or management of a
high-rise building, the previous owner shall provide all copies of the Emergency
Plan required by this chapter to the new owners within ten days of the change of
ownership.  The new owner shall, after receiving the Emergency Plan submit any
required updates within ten days.	4.	Hotel Exemption.  Hotels are exempt from
the requirements set forth in this Section, except that building staff and
employees shall participate in the fire drills required in this Section.	B.	Fire
Department Approval Required.  All Emergency Plans, procedures and evacuation
signs shall be completed and submitted to the Fire Department for inspection and
approval prior to their implementation.  All plans, signs, procedures and
training programs formulated by, or purchased from, a “High-Rise Life/Safety
Service” shall also be submitted for approval.  All persons engaging in the
business of “High-Rise Life/Safety Service” shall be required to obtain a
Certificate of Fitness in accordance with Division 6 of this Article.  The Fire
Department may deny approval of any “High-Rise Life/Safety Service” which
fails to meet minimum standards set by the Fire Chief.	C.	Building Inventory
Form.  A Building Inventory on a form provided by the Fire Department shall be
completed and submitted as part of the Emergency Plan and be subject to approval
by the Fire Department.	D.	Required Designated Personnel.  Each Emergency Plan
shall include the following required designated personnel:	1.	Fire Safety
Director.  The Fire Safety Director and Assistant Fire Safety Director shall be
employees of the building owner or manager or reside on the premises or be
otherwise approved by the Fire Department.	a.	The Fire Safety Director shall be
responsible for the establishment, implementation and maintenance of the
Emergency Plan, the annual emergency evacuation drills, training and all
documentation required by the Emergency Plan.	b.	The Fire Safety Director shall
also verify that all security personnel have a valid State certification.  The
Fire Safety Director and the Assistant Fire Safety Director shall obtain and
maintain a valid Fire Safety Director Certificate approved by the Fire
Department, and shall present their certificate for inspection upon request to
Fire Department personnel.	c.	The Fire Safety Director shall be responsible for
renewing their Certificate at least once a year in order to maintain a valid
certificate.  The Assistant Fire Safety Director shall be prepared to assume
the Fire Safety Director’s duties when necessary.	d.	The building owner shall
be responsible for payment of the fees associated with the issuance of the Fire
Safety Director Certificate by the Fire Department as described in Section
57.33.19 I.1.a.	2.	Floor Wardens.  A minimum of one Floor Warden per floor
shall be designated to perform the duties required by this Section.  Additional
Floor Wardens shall be required if the occupant load of a floor exceeds 500
people.  The Floor Warden shall obtain and maintain a valid Floor Warden
Certificate, approved by the Fire Department, and shall present their
certificate for inspection upon request by Fire Department personnel. 
Alternate Floor Wardens shall also obtain a certificate as Floor Warden and be
designated for each floor, and be prepared to assume the Floor Warden duties
when necessary.  In a residential building, the Floor Warden shall be a
resident on that floor or an employee of that building owner or manager.  In a
non-residential building, the Floor Wardens shall be employees on that floor. 
The Floor Wardens shall receive training at least once each year in order to
maintain a valid certificate.  Exemptions to this regulation may be granted
only upon a written request approved by the Fire Chief.  The building owner
shall be responsible for payment of the annual fee associated with the issuance
of the required number of Floor Warden Certificates by the Fire
Department.	3.	Private First Responders.  The operational portion of the
Emergency Plan shall identify and incorporate all Private First Responders for
the building.	4.	Essential Building Personnel.  The operational portion of the
Emergency Plan shall also identify and incorporate all Essential Building
Personnel who are employees of the owner or manager in the building.	E.	Required
Designated Personnel – On-Site Presence.  With regard to non-residential
high-rise buildings, the Fire Safety Director or Assistant Fire Safety Director
shall be present on-site during normal business hours.	F.	Emergency Response
Duties of Designated Personnel.		1.	The designated personnel required by
57.33.19 D. shall have, at a minimum, the following duties:	a.	The Fire Safety
Director or Assistant Fire Safety Director shall:	(1)	During an emergency, call
911 or designate someone to place the call; report to the building’s Emergency
Assistance Center; direct evacuation operations in the building including
disabled personnel in the designated refuge or rescue locations  who have
identified the need for assistance; and report the current conditions to the
Fire Department.	(2)	Conduct monthly building safety inspections to identify
hazards and obstructions in the egress pathways.	(3)	Develop procedures for
implementation of the Emergency Plan and direct emergency evacuations and
drills.	(4)	Assign Wardens for each floor, selected from the occupants on that
floor.	(5)	Incorporate Private First Responders for each occupied floor if
identified by the Emergency Plan.	b.	Floor Wardens shall:	(1)	 Know the
locations of all exits leading from occupied areas of the building and carry out
the requirements in the Emergency Plan	(2)	Direct emergency evacuations and
drills for their respective assigned floors in accordance with the Emergency
Plan.	c.	Private First Responders shall:	(1)	Know the location of all exits
leading from occupied areas and carry out the requirements in the Emergency
Plan.	(2)	Assist the Floor Wardens in the emergency evacuations and drills in
accordance to the Emergency Plan.	d.	Essential Building Personnel
shall:	(1)	Assist the Fire Safety Director during emergency evacuation
operations in accordance with the Emergency Plan.	(2)	Assist the Fire Department
and other emergency responders during emergency operations as described in the
Emergency Plan.	G.	Emergency Plan – Minimum Requirements.	1.	The following
provisions of this section reflect minimum requirements and are not intended to
restrict owners from implementing any additional measures:	a.	Each Emergency
Plan shall contain a description of the procedures all occupants should follow
in an emergency evacuation or drill during the regular business hours and
non-business hours of the building.  Each Emergency Plan shall also have a
procedure for total building evacuations.	b.	Each Emergency Plan shall specify
in detail the evacuation roles and duties of the designated personnel, including
the names of the Fire Safety Director and Assistant Fire Safety Director, their
pagers, in-house, and cellular telephone numbers.	c.	Each Emergency Plan shall
require that emergency evacuation signs be posted in elevator lobbies and
adjacent to the doorway leading to the exit stairs.  The signs shall include,
but not be limited to, the high-rise building’s core floor plan describing all
corridors, stairways, elevator lobbies, and interior evacuation routes for each
floor.	d.	The Fire Safety Director, with the approval of the Fire Department,
shall establish as part of every Emergency Plan an Emergency Assistance Center
where the Fire Safety Director or Assistant Fire Safety Director and other
selected personnel report during an emergency incident.  The Fire Safety
Director shall also assign a responsible person to meet and direct the Fire
Department to the location of the emergency incident.  The Emergency Assistance
Center may include a fire control room, lobby or safe refuge area outside of the
building.	e.	Special Needs Requirements shall be incorporated in the Emergency
Plan and shall include the current list of the names and usual floor locations
of each occupant who has voluntarily, in writing, self-identified their need for
assistance and the type of aid required to exit the building during an
emergency.  One or more places of refuge or rescue shall be designated in the
Emergency Plan including a method to safely remove these occupants from the
building.  The Emergency Plan shall include the appropriate number of personnel
designated to assist each of these occupants during an emergency evacuation or
fire drill.	f.	Occupant Instruction and Training.  All high-rise building
occupants shall be instructed annually on the procedures to be followed in the
event of fire, earthquake, or other emergency and participate in the mandatory
fire drill.  Documentation of the occupant instructions shall be maintained by
the Fire Safety Director and be made available for inspection by Fire Department
personnel.  These instructions shall also be made available to all new
occupants within 14 days of their assuming occupancy in the
building.	g.	Emergency Evacuation Plans, Signs, and Procedures.  The proposed
emergency exit plans, procedures, and evacuation signs shall be posted after
approval by the Fire Department.  Evacuation signs shall be located in every
elevator lobby above and below the ground floor, adjacent to the doorway leading
to the exit stairs, and in other conspicuous floor locations as required by the
Department.  Each dwelling unit, guest room, and office area shall be provided
with the fire safety and evacuation information, as required in Section
57.112.05.  All plans, procedures, and signs shall be properly
maintained.	h.	Each Emergency Plan, after approval by the Fire Department, shall
be filed:	(1)	In the office of the high-rise building; 	(2)	At the security
desk; and	(3)	In the vicinity of the Fire Department annunciator/control panel
or, as to residential buildings, in an identifiable location approved by the
Fire Chief.  The Emergency Plan shall be made readily available to the building
staff and to the designated personnel required by 57.33.19 D. at all
times.	H.	Fire Drills.	1.	Commercial high-rise buildings, less than 35 stories
in height, are required to conduct mandatory fire drills at least annually under
the direction of the Fire Safety Director:	a.	A mandatory minimum of one fire
drill shall be conducted annually on individual floors and when practical, shall
include at least five floors at a time.	b.	During the annual fire drill the
occupants shall proceed to the safest stairwell and relocate to a predetermined
floor or outside safe refuge area.	2.	Commercial high-rise buildings, 35 or more
stories in height, are required to conduct a mandatory fire drill at least
annually under the direction of the Fire Safety Director:	a.	A mandatory minimum
of one fire drill shall be conducted annually on individual floors, and when
practical, shall include at least five floors at a time.	b.	During the annual
fire drill the occupants shall proceed to the safest stairwell and relocate to a
predetermined floor or outside safe refuge area.	c.	Every three years there
shall be a total building evacuation fire drill, wherein every occupant of the
building proceeds to the safest stairwell and evacuates directly to a
predetermined outside safe refuge area.	3.	Residential high-rise buildings are
required to conduct mandatory fire drills at least annually under the direction
of the Fire Safety Director:	a.	A mandatory minimum of one fire drill shall be
conducted annually on individual floors and when practical shall include at
least five floors at a time.	b.	During the annual fire drill the occupants shall
proceed to the safest stairwell and relocate to a predetermined floor or outside
safe refuge area.	4.	Buildings that have stair shaft doors locked for security
reasons shall include a method in the Emergency Plan that allows for safe
horizontal egress from the stair shaft during a fire drill or emergency
evacuation.	5.	The Fire Safety Director of the building or their designee shall
coordinate the date of the total building evacuation drill for buildings 35 or
more stories in height with the Fire Department during normal working hours.  A
Fire Safety Officer shall be present to witness the total building evacuation
drill.	6.	The Fire Safety Director shall maintain documentation of all fire
drills on Fire Department approved forms and make it available for inspection by
the Department.  Fire drills may be scheduled in advance, with a notice posted
to all tenants.  All building occupants shall participate in the fire drills
and emergency evacuations.	I.	Fees.	1.	The building owner shall be responsible
for the following fees:	a.	Fire Safety Director Certificate Fee.  The owner of
the building shall be responsible for paying the fee based on one Fire Safety
Director Certificate Fee per building.	b.	Floor Warden Certificate Fee.   The
owner of the building shall be responsible for paying the fees based on one
Floor Warden Certificate Fee per floor.	c.	Total Building Evacuation Oversight
Fee.  The owner of the building shall be responsible for paying the Total
Building Evacuation Oversight Fee.	J.	Due Dates.	1.	Initial Payment.  The
permit fee shall initially be due, and  shall accompany the filing of an
initial permit application, on the 1st of January following the date of
construction, as that term is defined in Section 57.119.05.  For buildings
constructed prior to the effective date of these provisions, the initial payment
shall be due on the 1st of January following that effective date.	2.	Annual
Renewal.  Annual Renewal of certificates and payment of fees for renewal of
those existing certificates shall be due and payable each year on the first day
of January of the calendar year and shall be submitted with the renewal
application.	3.	Total Building Evacuation Payment.  The Total Building
Evacuation Oversight Fee shall be due and payable each year on the first day of
January of the calendar year and shall be submitted with the renewal
application.	4.	Delinquency.  Fees, whether initial or renewal, which are not
paid within 60 days after the due date shall be deemed delinquent and subject to
a 50% penalty.	K.	Computation.	Manner of Determining Cost.  The Board, with the
concurrence of the Office of the City Administrative Officer, shall determine on
a regular basis, not less frequently than once every two years, the verifiable
cost to the City for the certificate fees and the fees for the evacuation
oversight for high-rise buildings.  These costs shall be the actual costs
incurred as determined by the Board.  The costs shall include both direct and
indirect costs to the City.  The Board shall use these costs to develop a cost
recovery schedule of applicable charges.  The Board shall adopt such costs as
fees at any time during each fiscal year.  The cost recovery schedule shall
recover the verifiable annual costs of administering the certificates for Fire
Safety Directors and Floor Wardens, as well as the administration of the total
evacuation oversight for high-rise buildings, which shall include the cost of
collection of any fees due and owing in connection with these fees.  It shall
take into consideration the number of certificates issued that are subject to
the fees.  Upon adoption of a schedule of verifiable costs by the Board, as
provided herein, the Board shall transmit the Board order to the Mayor and to
the City Council for approval.	L.	Manner of Assessing Fees.  The cost recovery
schedule adopted herein shall impose a charge per certificate and set forth the
applicable charges for total evacuation oversight.	M.	Violations.	1.	Each
person, owner, manager, tenant, or other responsible party shall be guilty of a
separate offense for each and every day during any portion of which any
violation of any provision of this Section is committed, continued or permitted
by that person, and shall be punishable as provided in the Fire Code and as set
forth below.	2.	In addition, any condition caused or permitted to exist in
violation of any of the provisions of this Section shall be deemed a public
nuisance and may be summarily abated as such by the City.  Each day that such a
condition continues shall be deemed to be a new and separate
offense.	3.	Violation of the provisions of this Section, including refusal to
participate in a mandatory fire drill required by this Section, shall be a
violation of this Section punishable by at least a mandatory minimum fine of
$100, up to and not to exceed $1,000, or by imprisonment in the County Jail for
a period of not more than six (6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
