                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SALES AREA IN WHOLESALE AND RETAIL STORES. (§ 57.30.25)

  SALES AREA IN WHOLESALE AND RETAIL STORES.	A.	Maximum Quantity — The sales
area in wholesale or retail stores for computing the maximum quantity permitted
shall be considered as that portion of the floor actually being used for the
disposal of flammable and/or combustible liquids and the aisle in front of the
display. Quantities of flammable and/or combustible liquids in the sales areas
shall not exceed the following:	1.	Flammable and/or combustible liquids shall
not exceed two gallons per square foot of sales area and shall be in closed
containers of five gallons capacity or less.	EXCEPTIONS:	1.	Storage or display
of Class I liquids shall be prohibited in basements.	2.	Class IA liquids shall
not exceed one gallon per square foot of sales area.	3.	Class IB, IC or II
liquids on other than the ground floor shall be limited to one gallon per square
foot of sales area. If the occupancy is protected by an approved automatic
sprinkler system, Class IB, IC, or II liquids may be increased to two gallons
per square foot.	2.	The quantities of flammable and/or combustible solvents and
thinners displayed in occupancies not protected with an automatic sprinkler
system shall not exceed the following amounts:	a.	Class IB liquids shall not
exceed 120 gallons.	b.	Class IC liquids shall not exceed 180 gallons.	c.	Class
II liquids shall not exceed 240 gallons.	d.	Combinations of Class I and II
liquids with not more than the amounts of each class of liquid as set forth
above shall not exceed 240 gallons.	3.	The maximum quantities stated in Section
57.30.25, A.2. may be doubled for areas protected with an automatic sprinkler
system.	B.	Display Restrictions.	1.	Class I or II liquid containers in display
areas shall not be stacked more than three feet high unless on fixed shelving or
otherwise approved by the Chief.	2.	Shelving shall be of stable construction, of
sufficient depth, all arranged such that containers displayed thereon shall not
be easily displaced in event of earthquake or accidental impact.	C.	Dispensing
shall not be allowed in the sales area.	D.	Leaking containers shall be removed
to a Hazardous Materials Room or taken outside the building, and the contents
transferred in undamaged containers.
