                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

TESTING OF PIPING SYSTEMS. (§ 57.45.09)

  TESTING OF PIPING SYSTEMS.	A.	General:	After installation of the piping, but
before installation of the outlet valves and other system components, the lines
shall be blown clear by means of oil-free dry air or nitrogen.	B.	Pressure
Testing:
	1.	Before attachment of system components, but after installation of station
outlets with test caps in place, each section of the piping system shall be
subjected to a test pressure of not less than 150 psig with oil-free dry air or
nitrogen. This test pressure shall be maintained until each joint has been
examined for leakage.  All leaks shall be repaired and the pipe section
retested.	2.	After completing the testing of each section of the piping system,
all of the medical gas system shall be subjected to a 24-hour standing pressure
test at 20 percent above the normal operating line pressure. The test gas shall
be oil-free dry air or nitrogen. The main line shutoff valve shall be
closed.	3.	After the piping system is filled with test gas, the supply valve and
all outlets shall be closed and the source of test gas disconnected. The system
shall remain leak-free under such test conditions for 24 hours.  When making
the standing pressure test, the only allowable pressure changes during the
24-hour test period shall be those caused by variations in the ambient
temperature around the piping system.	C.	Test System For Cross Connection:	1.	To
determine that no cross connection to other piping systems exists, all systems
shall be reduced to atmospheric pressure.	2.	All sources of test gas shall be
disconnected from all of the systems with the exception of the one system to be
tested.	3.	The system to be tested shall be pressurized with oil-free dry air or
nitrogen to a pressure of 50 psig.	4.	Each individual station outlet of all
systems installed shall be checked to determine that test gas is being dispensed
only from the system being tested. This shall be done using appropriate adapters
matching outlet labels.	5.	The source of test gas shall be disconnected from the
system tested and the pressure of that system reduced to atmospheric.	6.	Each
additional piping system shall be tested using the same procedure.	7.	Where a
medical vacuum piping system is installed, the cross-connection testing shall
include that system with all other medical gas piping
systems.	D.	Purging:	1.	After all medical gas piping systems have been tested,
the source of test gas shall be disconnected and the proper gas source of supply
connected to each respective system. Following this connection and
pressurization, all outlets shall be opened in a progressive order, starting
nearest the source and completing the process of purge flushing at the outlet
farthest from the source.	2.	Purge gas shall be allowed to impinge upon a white
cloth material until no evidence of discoloration is evident and the test gas
used during the previous tests has been removed from the piping
systems.	E.	Warning System Tests:	Warning systems for each medical gas piping
system shall be tested to insure that all components function properly prior to
placing the piping system in service.  Permanent records of these tests shall
be maintained.
