                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PRESSURE RELIEF DEVICES. (§ 57.42.22)

  PRESSURE RELIEF DEVICES.	A.	Every container shall be protected by
pressure-relieving devices that will prevent the pressure from rising more than
10 percent above the maximum allowable working pressure, except when the excess
pressure is caused by fire exposure.	B.	When an aboveground container contains
flammable gases or vapors or liquefied flammable gases or is subject to fire
exposure, supplemental pressure-relieving devices shall be installed to protect
against excessive pressure. Such supplemental pressure-relieving devices shall
be capable of preventing the pressure from rising more than 20 percent above the
maximum allowable working pressure. A single pressure-relieving device may be
used to satisfy the requirements of this subsection as well as Subsection A
above, provided it meets the requirements of both subsections.	C.	Unless
otherwise approved by the Chief, the heat transfer rate used to compute the
capacity of supplemental pressure relieving devices required under Section
57.42.22-B shall be 20,000 B.T.U.’s per hour per square foot of the maximum
inside wetted surface of the container.	D.	Approved, pilot operated, diaphragm
type, low pressure regulators may be used as pressure-relieving devices on
vessels having a maximum allowable working pressure not exceeding 10
psig.	E.	Pressure relief devices on containers having a maximum allowable
working pressure in excess of 10 psig shall be of the direct spring-loaded type.
Pilot valve control or other indirect operation of such pressure relief valves
shall not be permitted unless the design is such that the main unloading valve
win open automatically at not over the set pressure and win discharge its
full-rated capacity if some essential part of the pilot or auxiliary device
should fail.	F.	Pressure relief devices shall be set to open at a pressure not
in excess of the maximum allowable working pressure of the container. If the
capacity is supplied by more than one valve or device, only one valve needs to
be set to open at a pressure not exceeding the maximum allowable working
pressure of the container; the additional valves may be set to open at a higher
pressure, but not to exceed 105 percent of the maximum allowable working
pressure.	G.	If separate pressure relief devices are provided to comply with the
requirement of Subsection B of this section, they shall be set to operate at a
pressure not in excess of 110 percent of the maximum allowable working
pressure.	H.	Rupture discs are prohibited except when installed upstream from
other pressure-relieving devices, or where the nature of the service makes
spring-loaded relief valves unreliable and the discharge from such rupture disc
would not constitute a hazard.	I.	Pressure-relieving devices, rupture discs in
series with such devices, and stop valves in series with pressure-relieving
devices shall be installed as provided in L.A.F.D. Standard No. 19.	J.	The
discharge from pressure relief valves or systems shall be at a safe location.
The following shall be considered minimum requirements:	1.	Open discharges shall
be so placed and directioned that the outflow is directed away from the
container and will not create a hazard over walkways, stairways, or operating
platforms. Discharge shall be vertically upwards whenever possible.	2.	The point
of discharge shall be not less than 10 feet above the adjacent ground level, nor
less than two feet above the surface of the container.	EXCEPTION:	Storage
containers having a capacity of 2,000 gallons or less.
