                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR LIQUEFIED MATERIALS. (§ 57.42.21)

  SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR LIQUEFIED MATERIALS.	Whenever storage containers,
other than at places which fall under the provisions of Section 57.01.28-B of
this article, are used for flammable or toxic liquefied materials, they shall be
equipped as provided in this section.	A.	All liquid connections which require a
shut-off valve as set forth in Section 57.42.20 shall, in addition to such
shut-off valve, be fitted with a manually operated internal valve.	B.	All vapor
connections which require a shut-off valve as set forth in Section 57.42.20
shall, in addition to such shut-off valve, be fitted with a manually operated
internal valve, or excess-flow check valve, or a back-flow check
valve.	C.	Internal valves, excess-flow check valves, and back-flow check valves
which are installed in accordance with Subsections A or B of this section shall
comply with the following requirements of this subsection:	1.	Every internal
valve shall be provided with a fusible section which will cause the valve to
close automatically in case of fire. The fusible section shall melt at a
temperature not in excess of 220° F.	2.	Every excess-flow check valve shall
close automatically at the rated flow of vapor specified by the manufacturer.
The selection of excess-flow check valve capacity shall be in conformance with
the design requirements of the system. Every excess flow valve shall be designed
with a bypass, not to exceed a No. 60 drill size opening to allow equalization
of pressures when closed.	3.	Every excess-flow and back-flow check valve shall
either be installed inside the container to prevent mechanical injury; or, if
installed so as to be accessible from outside the container, they shall be
designed so that an external blow cannot shear off vital parts so as to permit
escape of the container contents.	D.	Storage containers shall be equipped with a
liquid level gauging device of approved design. Tubular glass gauges shall not
be used on containers having a design pressure in excess of 15 psig.	1.	Every
gauging device that requires bleeding of the product to the atmosphere, such as
the rotary tube, fixed tube, and slip tube, shall be so designed that the bleed
valve maximum opening is no larger than a No. 54 drill size, unless provided
with an excess-flow check valve.	2.	Every gauging device shall be clearly marked
to indicate the maximum level to which the vessel may be filled for the material
contained. This level shall be based on the volume requirements of L.A.F.D.
Standard No. 25, assuming a product temperature of 40° F. for aboveground
storage containers and 50° F. for underground storage containers.	3.	Column
type gauges shall be equipped with positive shut-off valves at the top and
bottom, and in addition, shall be equipped with means for automatically
preventing continuous flow in case of breakage.	E.	Every storage container shall
have every inlet and outlet connection clearly labeled to designate whether it
is connected to the vapor space or the liquid space. Labels may be on valves,
except that labels shall not be required on connections to safety valves,
pressure gauges, or liquid level gauging devices.
