                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

GRINDING, BUFFING AND WIRE BRUSHING. (§ 57.52.08)

  GRINDING, BUFFING AND WIRE BRUSHING.	A.	Hoods: At each grinding, buffing or
wire brushing operation on magnesium, not including rough finishing of castings,
dust shall be collected by means of approved hoods or enclosures connected to a
liquid precipitation type of separator, such that the dust will be converted to
sludge without contact in a dry state with any high speed moving
parts.	B.	Ducts: Connecting ducts or suction tubes shall be grounded and as
short as possible with no unnecessary bends. Ducts shall be carefully fabricated
and assembled, with a smooth interior and with internal lap joints pointing in
the direction of air flow, and without unused capped side outlets, pockets or
other deadend spaces which might allow an accumulation of dust.	C.	Separators:
Each machine shall be equipped with an individual dust separator unit, except
that with multi-unit machines, not more than two dust producing units may be
served by one separator.  Not more than four portable dust producing units in a
single enclosure or stand may be served by one separator unit.	D.	Power
Interlock: Power supply to machines shall be interlocked with (l) exhaust air
flow and (2) liquid pressure level or flow in such a way that improper
functioning of the dust removal and separator system will shut down the machine
it serves.	E.	Electrical Equipment: Electric motors, lighting fixtures, control
equipment and wiring in immediate vicinity of, and attached to dust producing
machines, including that used in connection with separator equipment, shall be
of a type approved for use in a dust-hazardous location, and installed in
accordance with the provisions of Chapter 9 of the L.A.M.C. (Electrical
Code).	F.	Grounding: All equipment shall be securely and permanently grounded in
an approved manner to prevent the accumulation of static electricity.	G.	Dust
Disposal: Sludge from dust separators should be removed at least daily or more
frequently, as conditions warrant. Vented steel containers with tight fitting
steel lids of not over 50 pounds capacity each, shall be used to transport the
collected sludge to a place for safe disposal by approved methods. All
containers used for magnesium sludge or waste shall have conspicuous sign
painted thereon to indicate their contents.	H.	Other Metals: Machinery and
equipment described in this subsection shall not be used for processing ferrous
metals.	I.	Filters: Dust collection equipment shall not have obstructions that
will allow accumulation of dust in any part of the system other than the
designed accumulator.	J.	Sludge Pits: Sludge pits shall be arranged so as to be
well ventilated to the outside atmosphere at all times.	K.	Chrome-pickled
Magnesium: In the grinding of chrome-pickled magnesium surfaces, special
precautions shall be taken to guard against accumulations of dust in air within
range of the sparks which may be produced.
