                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DUCTS. (§ 57.53.17)

  DUCTS.	A.	Metal ducts shall be constructed of sheet metal in accordance with
Table 53-A.TABLE 53-A
FLAMMABLE MATERIAL DUCTS – GAUGE OF METAL  
    
      
        Diameter of Duct in Inches
      
      
        U.S. Standard Gauge of Duct
      
    
    
      
        Non-Abrasive Materials
      
      
        Abrasive Materials
      
    
    
      
        8 or Less
      
      
        24
      
      
        20
      
    
    
      
        Over 8 to 18
      
      
        22
      
      
        18
      
    
    
      
        Over 18 to 30
      
      
        20
      
      
        16
      
    
    
      
        Over 30
      
      
        18
      
      
        14
      
    
  
	B.	Buried ducts may be of concrete or ceramic materials, cast iron, or
cement-asbestos and shall be properly protected to prevent mechanical
injury.	C.	All sheet metal elbows and bends shall be made from material at least
two gauges heavier than is required for straight duct work of the same diameter
except that for No. 14 gauge and heavier, the elbows and straight duct work may
be of the same gauge.	D.	Round sheet metal elbows shall be of at least
five-piece construction for ducts six inches in diameter or less, and of
seven-piece construction for larger ducts, with a throat radius equal to one and
one-half times to two times the duct diameter unless space prohibits the use of
such long bends.  In place of long radius elbows specified above, rectangular
elbows, venturi-shaped elbows or other bends of equivalent low resistance design
may be used.	E.	The main suction duct should receive only one branch in a
section of uniform area, whenever space permits, and in no case shall it receive
more than two branches in such a section.	F.	The inlet area of the fan or
exhaust duct shall be equal to or greater than the sum of the areas of all the
branch ducts.	G.	Every branch duct shall connect with the main duct at top or
side at an angle not exceeding 45 degrees, inclined in the direction of the
airflow.	H.	The main suction and discharge ducts shall be made as short as
practicable.  To provide access for sweeping and cleaning, ducts should not be
less than six inches above the floor at every point, and not closer than six
inches to any ceiling.	I.	Every duct shall be kept open and unobstructed
throughout its length, and no screen shall be placed in it. The use of a trap
may be permitted as provided in Section 57.53.13 of this article.	J.	Main ducts
of systems handling materials which form an explosive mixture with air shall be
run on the outside of the building where practicable, with ducts from each
operation and each floor passing out directly through the wall and discharging
into the main ducts.	K.	Additional branch ducts shall not be added to an
existing system without redesigning the system.  Branch ducts shall not be
disconnected nor unused portions of a system be blanked off without providing
orifice plates to maintain required airflow.
