                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SMOKELESS POWDER. (§ 57.55.02)

  SMOKELESS POWDER.	A.	Containers: All smokeless powder shall be stored in
shipping containers approved by the D.O.T.	B.	Storage Requirements: Commercial
stocks of smokeless powder shall be stored as follows:	1.	Display of smokeless
powder shall be limited to one pound of each type and shall not be accessible to
the public.  Total quantity of smokeless powder not in an approved portable
magazine shall be limited to 20 pounds.	2.	Quantities of more than 20 pounds and
not more than 100 pounds shall be stored in approved portable magazines
constructed in accordance with L.A.F.D. Standard No. 40.	3.	Quantities of more
than 100 pounds and not more than 5,000 pounds may be stored inside a building
if the following requirements are met:	a.	The warehouse or storage room shall
not be accessible to unauthorized personnel and shall be separated from the
retail sales areas by a one-hour fire resistive separation.	b.	Smokeless powder
shall be stored in non-portable storage cabinets having wooden walls at least
one inch thick and not more than a three foot vertical separation between
shelves.	c.	Not more than 400 pounds shall be permitted in any one storage
cabinet.	d.	Storage cabinets shall be located only against walls of the
warehouse or storage room with a minimum distance of 40 feet between
cabinets.	e.	Separation distance between cabinets may be reduced to 20 feet if
barricades are attached to the wall and are at least twice the height of the
cabinets or floor to ceiling. Barricades shall be centered between cabinets and
shall extend at least 10 feet perpendicular from the wall. Barricades are to be
constructed of either brick, concrete block, wood at least two inches thick,
boiler plate at least 1/4 inch thick, or of equivalent materials.  Barricades
shall be firmly attached to the building structure at both ends.	f.	Smokeless
powder shall be separated from flammable liquids, flammable solids, and
oxidizing materials by a one-hour fire-resistive separation.  Smokeless powder
shall be separated from small arms primers or other explosives by a minimum
distance of 25 feet or by a one-hour fire-resistive separation.	g.	Buildings in
which smokeless powder is stored shall be equipped with an automatic sprinkler
system installed in accordance with Chapter 9 of the L.A.M.C. (Building Code).
