                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SMALL ARMS PRIMERS. (§ 57.55.03)

  SMALL ARMS PRIMERS.	A.	Containers: Small arms primers shall not be
transported or stored except in the original shipping containers approved by the
D.O.T.	B.	Separation: Small arms primers shall be separated from flammable
liquids, flammable solids and oxidizing materials by a one-hour fire-resistive
separation.  Small arms primers shall be separated from smokeless powder or
other explosives by a minimum distance of 25 feet or by a one-hour fire
resistive separation.	C.	Storage Requirements:	1.	Quantities of up to 750,000
small arms primers may be stored in a building if not more than 100,000 are
stored in any one pile, and piles are at least 15 feet apart.	2.	Small arms
primers in excess of 750,000, stored in a building, shall not be accessible to
unauthorized personnel and shall be stored in storage cabinets, not to exceed
200,000 primers in each cabinet.  Such cabinets shall meet the following
construction and location requirements:	a.	Shelves of storage cabinets shall not
have less than a two-foot vertical separation.	b.	Storage cabinets shall be
located only against walls of the storage area with a minimum distance of 40
feet between cabinets.	c.	Separation distance between cabinets may be reduced to
20 feet if barricades are attached to the wall and are at least twice the height
of the cabinets or floor to ceiling. Barricades shall be centered between
cabinets and shall extend at least 10 feet perpendicular to the wall. Barricades
are to be constructed of either brick, concrete block, wood at least two inches
thick, boiler plate at least 1/4 inch thick, or of equivalent materials. 
Barricades shall be firmly attached to the building structure at both
ends.	3.	The building shall be equipped with an automatic sprinkler system
installed in accordance with Chapter 9 of the L.A.M.C. (Building
Code).	D.	Commercial stocks of small arms primers not in the original shipping
containers shall be stored in a portable magazine constructed in accordance with
L.A.F.D. Standard No. 40.
