                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SEPARATING AND COLLECTING EQUIPMENT. (§ 57.53.18)

  SEPARATING AND COLLECTING EQUIPMENT.	A.	Cyclones, condensers, cloth screen
and stocking arrestors, centrifugal collectors, and other devices used for the
purpose of separating solid materials from the air stream in which it is
carried, and hoppers, bins, silos, and vaults for collecting the solid materials
so separated, shall be provided and maintained as hereinafter
specified.	B.	Separating and collecting equipment shall be designed and
constructed to withstand anticipated explosion pressures, due consideration
being given the reduction in pressure afforded by adequate explosion relief
vents.	C.	Every dust collecting system, blower, and conveyor shall discharge
into an approved vault equipped with an automatic damper or choke in the
discharge pipe, or into a noncombustible container outside of the
building.	EXCEPTION:	In small shops, dust collecting systems may discharge into
metal vaults which are vented to the outside and are located within the
building.  Where such collectors are of insufficient strength to resist
maximum-calculated explosion pressure, they shall be located close to exterior
walls to facilitate explosion relief venting.	D.	Cyclone dust collectors shall
vent outside of the building or to a fire-resistive, explosion vented,
dust-tight room conforming to requirements of the Building Department. 
Supports shall be of steel, masonry, or concrete.  Clean-out doors shall be
provided.	E.	Separating or collecting equipment shall be located at a safe
distance from combustible construction or unprotected openings into buildings,
and in any case not closer than a distance equal to its width or
diameter.	F.	Discharge ducts shall not come within 18 inches of combustible
material and shall terminate at least two feet above any roof of combustible
construction, and two feet above any openings within 10 feet.	G.	Delivery ducts
from cyclone collectors shall not convey refuse directly into the fireboxes of
boilers, furnaces, (including Dutch Ovens) refuse burners, incinerators,
etc.	H.	Delivery of stock from separator, cyclones, or other collection
equipment to storage receptacles shall, wherever practicable, be accomplished by
means of gravity through tightly fitted ducts.	I.	Where refuse is to be used as
fuel, the discharge system from the storage receptacle or intermediate feed bin
shall be so designed that either by means of a choke feeder or choke conveyor, a
positive cut-off is provided to prevent a flashback from the furnace.  The
installation of a steam spray in the duct to the furnace, blowing steam in the
direction of the fuel flow, shall be installed where practicable to provide an
added safety factor in preventing a flashback.
