                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

INDOOR STORAGE. (§ 57.57.03)

  INDOOR STORAGE.	A.	Area Divisions: Every building used for storing
combustibles shall be divided into Storage Piles within Single Storage Areas by
providing Main Aisles and Side Aisles.	EXCEPTION:	Storage Piles within a Single
Storage Area of 5,000 square feet or less may be divided by Side Aisles,
provided no Storage Pile is greater than 15,000 cubic feet.	B.	Area Separations:
There shall be no materials stored within a Storage Pile more than 50 feet from
a Main Aisle and not more than 15 feet from a Side Aisle; and further, any
Storage Pile over 50 feet in length shall be bordered on at least two sides by
Main Aisles.  Any Storage Pile shall be limited to a maximum length of 100
feet.	C.	Height Limitations:	1.	Storage shelving or racks more than five feet
nine inches in height shall be designed and constructed in accordance with
Chapter 9 of the L.A.M.C. (Building Code) and the requirements of this
article.	2.	The height of piles of materials, tiers of shelving, or racks shall
be maintained in ratio to the width of the aisles. With minimum Main or Side
Aisle width, the height shall not exceed 15 feet.  When the height is
increased, the Main and Side Aisles shall be increased in width three inches for
each foot of increased height.	3.	In unsprinklered buildings, piles of
materials, tiers of shelving, or racks shall have their highest point at least
three feet below the ceiling, lowest chords, beams, girders, or other roof
support trusses which may obstruct the effective application of water from hose
streams.  Piles of materials extending above and between the lowest roof
support trusses shall have a minimum three feet of clear space from the roof
support trusses.	4.	In sprinklered buildings, piles of materials, tiers of
shelving, or racks shall have their highest point at least 18 inches below
automatic sprinkler heads.  Where storage consists of large, tightly-packed
piles of baled, sacked, or cased material, the distance below sprinkler heads
shall be a minimum of three feet.	5.	Wood pallets and/or non-expanded
polyethylene solid deck pallets:	a.	Pallet piles shall be stored no higher than
six feet.	b.	Each pallet pile (four individual stacks of pallets) shall be
separated from other pallet piles by a minimum distance of eight feet and from
the storage of other commodities by 25 feet.	c.	The storage height of pallets
may be increased up to 20 feet in height providing the Storage Area meets the
requirements of L.A.F.D. Standard No. 61 (Sprinkler Density Requirements for
Pallet Storage).	D.	Clearance From Exposures:	1.	A clearance of at least 18
inches shall be maintained between stored materials and lighting fixtures.	2.	An
unobstructed clearance of at least two feet shall be maintained between stored
materials, which may swell or expand with the absorption of water and building
walls.	3.	Materials which are particularly susceptible to water damage shall be
stored on skids, dunnage, pallets, or elevated platforms, maintaining at least
four inches of clearance from the floor.	4.	Stored materials shall be arranged
so as to allow drainage of floor areas through floor drains or wall scuppers.
