                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

AFTER-BURNER AND CATALYTIC COMBUSTION SYSTEMS. (§ 57.61.09)

  AFTER-BURNER AND CATALYTIC COMBUSTION SYSTEMS.	A.	After-burner
System:	1.	Fuel systems and controls for after-burners shall comply with the
requirements for direct-fired oven heaters.  The operation with the
fume-generating process shall also be guaranteed by proper interlocking devices
within the after-burner.	2.	Where the relative location of equipment and/or the
type of fumes generated is such that they may condense between the originating
process and the afterburner to form combustible liquids or solids, further
safeguards shall be taken to avoid fire hazard and to guarantee delivery to the
after-burner in true vapor form or combustible particulate
form.	3.	Excess-temperature protection shall be provided in the form of
increased air dilution or interruption of the feed to the originating
process.	4.	When portions of the potential energy are returned to earlier stages
of the heating system (oven, fume delivery manifold, or afterburner), safeguards
shall be provided to avoid recycling untreated gases in the event of system
malfunction.	B.	Catalytic Combustion System:	1.	Catalytic-type systems, whether
employed for oven heat supply, exhaust energy recovery, or air pollution control
shall be subject to the same safety precautions as other direct-fired oven
heaters or after-burner systems.	2.	Exhaust from several ovens, kettles, or
dryers may be manifolded to a single catalytic unit only when a double-jacketed,
heated manifold is provided, and there is no provision for heat recovery to the
original process.	3.	An excess temperature limit device, downstream from the
catalyst bed, shall be arranged to shut down the process burners and material
handling equipment, and to operate exhaust relief dampers to provide maximum
discharge to the outside atmosphere.  In special instances where an exothermic
reaction may occur within a process being served, further protection shall be
provided by arranging for complete diversion of fumes from the catalyst system
when the high limit temperature control is actuated.	4.	Adequate exhaust
ventilation shall be provided to maintain vapor-air mixtures below 50 percent of
the lower flammable limit.  Proper interlocking devices shall be installed to
automatically shut down the fuel input and the conveyor whenever this point is
reached.     	5.	Explosion relief of one square foot for each 15 cubic feet
of volume shall be provided for large catalytic units (above 64 cubic feet size)
subject to excess energy release or fuel hazards.
