                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

WARNING PLACARDS AND SIGNS. (§ 57.76.11)

  WARNING PLACARDS AND SIGNS.	A.	Whenever organic peroxides are processed or
stored in quantities requiring a Permit under Division 4 of this article,
warning placards designed and constructed as specified in L.A.F.D. Standard No.
58, Table 76-A, shall be conspicuously posted at the following locations.	1.	At
an entrance to any building where such materials are processed or stored, and at
such other locations as may be required by the Chief.	2.	At the main entrance to
any area outside a building where such materials are stored or processed, or
within such area if no entrance is clearly defined.	B.	Signs with letters at
least three inches in height on contrasting background stating “ORGANIC
PEROXIDES” shall be posted at all locations within a building and at all
locations within an area outside a building where such materials are processed
or stored, as well as other locations as may be required by the
Chief.	C.	Vehicles used for the transportation of organic peroxides shall
display a warning placard designed, constructed, and affixed as specified in
L.A.F.D. Standard No. 25.  Such vehicles shall comply with all other provisions
of L.A.F.D. Standard No. 25 that are consistent with the provisions of State law
and the regulations promulgated thereunder that regulate the transportation of
such materials.TABLE 76-A
WARNING PLACARD NUMBERING SYSTEM  
    
      
        Organic Peroxide Hazard Classification
      
      
        Degree of Reactivity Hazard For Use on Warning Placards
      
    
    
      
        Class 1
      
      
        4
      
    
    
      
        Class 2
      
      
        4
      
    
    
      
        Class 3
      
      
        3
      
    
    
      
        Class 4
      
      
        2
      
    
    
      
        Class 5
      
      
        1
      
    
  
	NOTE: Organic peroxides in Class 1 or 2 have been assigned a number 4 degree
because of their detonation and explosion characteristics.
