                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

CLASS IV DRY CLEANING PLANTS. (§ 57.79.10)

  CLASS IV DRY CLEANING PLANTS.	The provisions of this section apply to Class
IV dry cleaning plants and systems located in buildings with or without other
occupancies, in which the dry cleaning is not conducted by the public nor in
coin-operated type equipment.	A.	General Requirements:	1.	Class IV plants shall
be so designed, installed, and operated to reduce to a reasonable and acceptable
degree the toxicity or health hazards incident to the nature of the
solvents.	2.	Only solvents approved for Class IV installations shall be used in
any dry cleaning machine or system designed for such solvents.	3.	All
solvent-handling equipment and components shall be constructed to prevent
leakage.	4.	Solvent storage and treatment tanks and all interior steel surfaces
which tend to corrode when exposed during ordinary operation to solvent and to
air alternately shall be protected against corrosion.  Pumps, filters, or any
closed containers which ordinarily are completely filled with solvent or which
ordinarily do not tend to corrode, may be constructed of carbon steel without
corrosion protection.	5.	Exhaust ventilation ducts from equipment shall extend
above the roof line unless leading directly into a solvent recovery
system.	B.	Ventilation, Light, Power, and Heat:	1.	Class IV plants shall be
provided with ventilation adequate to maintain an average solvent concentration
anywhere within the plant:  For plants using perchlorethylene, not more than
100 PPM; for plants using fluorocarbon 113 (trichlorotrifluoroethane) not more
than 1,000 PPM.  Manually operated emergency ventilation for spills or leaks
shall be installed to provide an air change every five minutes within 15 feet of
Class IV equipment. The switch for this ventilation equipment shall be readily
accessible and clearly identified.	2.	All electrical equipment, devices, and
wiring for light and power shall be installed in accordance with the
requirements of Chapter 9 of the L.A.M.C. (Electrical Code).	3.	Air for
combustion for gas and oil-fired devices shall come through ducts from a clean
source of air outside the building when such devices are located in the dry
cleaning room.	4.	Apparatus with open flames or with exposed electric heating
elements shall not be placed within 20 feet of any Class IV equipment, unless
such apparatus is located in a separate enclosed room or cabinet which is
independently ventilated to prevent the air from the dry cleaning system from
being drawn towards the apparatus.	5.	All exhaust ventilation systems shall be
installed in accordance with the requirements of Chapter 9 of the L.A.M.C.
(Mechanical Code),  and no closer than 25 feet from any openings in other
occupancies.	C.	Pumps and Piping:	1.	The transfer or circulation of solvent
shall be through closed circuit pipes.  Except for gravity flow through pipes,
pumps shall be used for the transfer of solvent.	2.	Pipes, tubings, valves, and
sightglasses shall be of materials suitable for use with the solvent and shall
be tested for minimum pressure of 50 percent in excess of the maximum operating
pressure.	3.	Flow and level sightglasses shall be reliably protected against
physical damage.	4.	All pumps shall be designed for the solvent being used and
be provided with seals proven to be leakproof in solvent operation.  Positive
displacement pumps for solvent service shall be fitted with relief valves or
bypasses set to prevent pressure in excess of the working pressure of the
system.	D.	Dry Cleaning Units:	1.	Dry cleaning units shall be provided with an
automatically activated exhaust ventilation system to maintain a minimum of 100
FPM air velocity through the loading door whenever the door is open.  An
external ventilation shroud immediately outside the loading door may be used,
provided the airflow capacity in CFM is not less than 100 times the area in
square feet of the door opening.	2.	Dry cleaning units shall be equipped with
brakes or other suitable means to stop the machine within a reasonable time. 
Brakes shall be designed to avoid the creation of sparks or excessive heat.  If
dry cleaning units are equipped with automatic controls, a manual push button to
stop the machine shall be provided in front of the unit.	3.	Dry cleaning units
shall be provided with an overflow pipe one size larger than the size of the
solvent supply line to the machine.  Such overflow pipe shall be connected to
the shell of the washer so that the top of the overflow is below the bottom of
the trunion shaft; it shall be without shutoff valves and be arranged to
discharge to a suitable tank.  The supply pipe shall contain a shutoff valve,
shall enter the washer above the discharge level, and shall discharge away from
the door opening.	4.	Individual button and lint traps shall be provided for each
dry cleaning unit.	5.	Dry cleaning units shall be constructed with sufficient
clearance between the cylinder or basket and the outer casing to prevent the
striking or rubbing of parts of the rotating cylinder against the outer
casing.	E.	Dry Tumblers and Cabinets:	Drying tumblers and drying cabinets shall
be ventilated to the outside air or to a solvent recovery system by means of
properly constructed pipes or ducts connected to an exhaust fan of sufficient
capacity to remove all dust, vapors, or lint generated by the process.  The fan
shall be properly housed and interlocked so as to ensure operation while the
drying tumbler is in use.	F.	Filters:	1.	Filters operating above atmospheric
pressure shall be A.S.M.E. approved pressure vessels, or shall be constructed to
withstand, without bursting, a pressure of five times the maximum allowable
working pressure, or to withstand, without yielding, a pressure of two and
one-half times the maximum allowable working pressure.	2.	Pressure type filters
shall be equipped with a reliable pressure gauge which shall be regularly
checked for accuracy.  Filters shall not be operated at pressures exceeding
that recommended by the manufacturers.	3.	Pressure filters shall be provided
with an air bleeding valve and line connected to discharge into the washer or
into the storage tank vent line.  Such air bleeding lines shall not discharge
into the room.	4.	Filters shall be equipped with pressure relief devices which
will prevent the pressure within the filter from rising more than 10 percent
above the working pressure of the filter.  The relief device shall not be
smaller than three-fourths inch pipe size and shall discharge into an
underground tank or aboveground base tank of a dry cleaning unit without a
shutoff valve in the line.	G.	Stills:	1.	Atmospheric solvent stills shall be
constructed to prevent hot solvent vapor from escaping into the room when
operated under normal conditions and at rated capacity.	2.	Stills shall be
equipped with solvent aftercoolers to lower the distilled solvent temperature to
less than 100°F. before returning the solvent to the dry cleaning
system.	3.	Water separators shall be provided on stills to reduce the amount of
water entrapped with the distilled solvent.	4.	Stills shall be equipped with a
thermostatically controlled valve on the inlet steam line.  Such valve shall be
automatically closed when the temperature of the cooling water leaving the
condensor exceeds:  For perchlorethylene, 160°F.; and for fluorocarbon 113
(trichlorotrifluoroethylene), 95°F.	H.	Operation:	1.	Machines and equipment
shall be operated in accordance with operating instructions furnished by the
machinery manufacturer.  All employees shall be thoroughly instructed as to the
hazards involved in their departments and in the work they perform.	2.	Flammable
or combustible liquids used for spotting operations shall be in approved safety
cans of not more than one-gallon capacity with an aggregate amount not exceeding
10 gallons.	3.	The spotting, scouring, or brushing table or scrubbing tub shall
be so located as to ensure thorough and effective disposal of solvent vapors
through an approved ventilating system.	4.	Proper maintenance and operating
practices for the entire dry cleaning plant shall be adhered to which will
prevent leakage of solvent and the accumulation or lint.	5.	The lint and refuse
shall be removed from all traps after the close of the working day and deposited
in approved metal containers with tight-fitting metal lids.  At all other times
the trap covers shall be kept securely in place.	I.	Fire Protection:	Portable
fire extinguishers shall be provided in accordance with the provisions of
Division 140 of this article.
