                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

CLASS V COIN-OPERATED, SELF-SERVICE DRY CLEANING PLANTS. (§ 57.79.20)

  CLASS V COIN-OPERATED, SELF-SERVICE DRY CLEANING PLANTS.	The provisions of
this section shall regulate Class V dry cleaning plants in which the dry
cleaning is conducted by the public.	A.	General Requirements:	1.	Class V plants
shall be so designed, installed and operated to reduce to a reasonable and
acceptable degree the toxicity or health hazards incident to the nature of the
solvents.	2.	Only solvents approved for Class V installations shall be used in
the dry cleaning machines.	3.	All solvent handling equipment and components
shall be constructed to prevent leakage.	4.	Solvent storage and treatment tanks
and all interior steel surfaces which tend to corrode when exposed during
ordinary operation to solvent and to air alternately shall be protected against
corrosion.  Pumps, filters, or any closed containers ordinarily completely
filled with solvent, or steam coils or chests immersed in solvent or which
ordinarily do not tend to corrode, may be constructed of carbon steel without
corrosion protection.	5.	Exhaust ventilation ducts from equipment shall extend
above the roof line unless leading directly into a solvent recovery
system.	B.	Ventilation, Light Power and Heat:	1.	Class V plants shall be
provided with adequate ventilation.  There shall be a minimum of air flow rate
away from the customer areas as follows:
  
    
      
        NUMBER OF DRY CLEANING UNITS
      
      
        AIR FLOW PER UNIT-CFM
      
    
    
      
        1-3
      
      
        250
      
    
    
      
        4-8
      
      
        200
      
    
    
      
        9-16
      
      
        150
      
    
    
      
        17 or More
      
      
        100
      
    
  
	This exhaust ventilation shall be provided continuously while the plant is open
for business.  The exhaust fan shall be interlocked so that the dry cleaning
units cannot be operated unless the fan is in operation.  A supply of make-up
air equal to or greater than the total volume of air exhausted shall be provided
for the customer area.	2.	A ventilation fan shall be installed in the service
area to be used in case of a serious solvent leak.  The combination capacity of
the ventilation required in Subdivision 1 above and this fan shall be not less
than 500 CFM per dry cleaning machine.  The switch for this ventilation
equipment shall be readily accessible and clearly identified.	3.	All electrical
devices and wiring shall be installed in accordance with the requirements of
Chapter 9 of the L.A.M.C. (Electrical Code).	4.	Air for combustion for gas and
oil-fired devices shall come through ducts from a clean source of air outside
the building when such devices are located in the dry cleaning room.	5.	All
exhaust ventilation systems shall be installed in accordance with the
requirements of Chapter 9 of the L.A.M.C. (Mechanical Code), and shall be
located no closer than 25 feet from any openings in other occupancy or
business.	C.	Pumps and Piping:	Section 57.79.10c of this division shall be
applicable for Class V plants.	D.	Dry Cleaning Units, Filters, and
Stills:	1.	The applicable provisions of Subsections D, F, and G of Section
57.79.10 of this Division shall apply to dry cleaning units, filters, and stills
used in Class V plants.	2.	Only the front (customer) side of the dry cleaning
unit shall be exposed in the customer area.  The working or maintenance portion
of the units shall be separated in a service area by an approved partition. 
Access doors to the service area shall be kept locked.	3.	Dry cleaning units
shall be provided with an automatically activated exhaust ventilation system to
maintain a minimum of 100 FPM air velocity through the loading door whenever the
door is open.	4.	A satisfactory means of preventing solvent leaks from escaping
the dry cleaning units area shall be provided.  A curb on the floor near the
base of the unit or a metal pan around the unit shall be provided which will
hold the volume of liquid equal to the maximum quantity of solvent in the
unit.	5.	Filter residue and other residues containing solvent shall be handled
and disposed of in approved covered metal containers with tight-fitting metal
lids.	6.	Stills shall be constructed so as to prevent hot solvent vapor from
escaping into the room.	E.	Operation:	1.	Operating instructions for customer use
shall be posted in a conspicuous location near the unit.  A telephone number
shall be listed for emergency assistance.	2.	An interlock system shall be
provided to prevent the loading door of the unit from being opened during the
entire dry cleaning cycle.	3.	The unit shall be designed so that no significant
amount of solvent is left in the cleaned garments at the end of the drying
cycle.	4.	Proper maintenance of the dry cleaning units shall be provided daily
to prevent solvent leakage and lint accumulation.	5.	Spotting operations using
flammable or combustible liquids shall not be permitted.	6.	Customer areas shall
be kept clean.	F.	Fire Protection:	Portable fire extinguishers shall be provided
in accordance with the provisions of Division 140 of this article.
