                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

LOADING EXPLOSIVE MATERIALS – GENERAL. (§ 57.70.33)

  LOADING EXPLOSIVE MATERIALS – GENERAL.	A.	Machines and all metal tools not
used for loading explosive materials into bore holes shall be removed from the
immediate location of bore holes before explosive materials are
delivered.	B.	Blasting operations shall be carried on with the smallest
practical number of persons present and no one but authorized personnel shall be
allowed in the blast area.	C.	Under no circumstances shall the amount of
explosive materials taken into a blast area exceed the amount estimated by the
Blasting Operator as necessary for the blast.	D.	Explosive materials shall be
stacked in piles not less than 25 feet from the nearest holes being loaded and
so spaced and distributed as to prevent propagation of an explosion between any
two piles in the event of a premature detonation in any portion of the blast
area.	E.	The explosive materials containers, if any, shall be opened at the pile
and carried up to the hole one case or unit at a time for immediate loading, or
placed at a loading station not less than six feet from the hole except that not
more than 100 pounds of explosive materials shall be allowed at the loading
station at any one time.	F.	When drilling and loading are being performed
simultaneously in the same area, the two operations shall be separated as widely
as practicable and in no case shall drilling be conducted closer to a loaded
hole than a distance equal to the deepest blast hole in the area.	G.	Power lines
and portable electric cables to equipment shall be kept a safe distance away
from explosive materials and loaded holes.  Cables within 100 feet of any hole
which is loaded or being loaded shall be de-energized.	H.	All drill holes shall
be checked with a loading stick, dolly, or mirror before loading operations are
started, to make sure the hole is opened for the full depth.	I.	Detonators, when
used in firing blasts, shall be of not less strength than number six.	J.	The
detonators shall be encased in explosive materials when inserted into a drill
hole, unless a safety primer is used.	K.	A funnel made of wood, nonferrous
metal, or heavy paper shall be used to load free-flowing or bulk explosive
materials down a hole.  The explosive material shall be poured directly from
its container through the funnel into the hole.	L.	Only wooden rods shall be
used for tamping explosive materials and such rods shall have no metal tips or
parts other than non-ferrous metal ferrules for extending the length of the
wooden rod.  The end of the tamping stick shall be kept square and of such
minimum diameter that the tamping stick will not by-pass the cartridges in the
hole.	M.	When loading explosive materials in a bore hole, tamping shall be by
pressure or light blows only and never by excessive ramming.	N.	All blast holes
shall be stemmed to the collar or to a point to sufficiently confine the charge
and minimize the chance of injury to personnel by flying material.	O.	Mechanical
tamping devices shall be so constructed that no metal parts will enter the bore
hole unless such parts are so effectively insulated that no metal can come in
contact with the explosive materiel being tamped.
