                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

BLASTING – GENERAL PRECAUTIONS. (§ 57.70.32)

  BLASTING – GENERAL PRECAUTIONS.	A.	There shall be no smoking, open lights,
or fire of any kind or radio transmission in or near any posted area where
explosive materials are being handled.  No source of ignition, except necessary
means to light fuses or fire electric detonators, shall be permitted in any
posted area containing loaded holes.	B.	Explosive materials shall be stored in
an explosive magazine until such time as they are required for use.	C.	No
explosive material container shall be opened with metallic tools, except that
knives, metallic slitters, or similar tools may be used to open cardboard
cartons containing explosive materials.	D.	Paper cartons, sawdust, and other
rubbish from explosive material containers shall be removed to a safe place and
burned.	E.	Explosive materials shall not be placed or left within 25 feet of any
electric light or power circuit except during transportation.	F.	No blasting or
preparation for blasting shall be done during the approach or progress of an
electrical storm.	G.	The Blasting Operator shall set the time for all blasting.
Before firing any charge, the Blasting Operator shall give adequate warning in
all directions and shall make sure that all persons are out of the blasting
area.  No person shall return to the blasting area until permitted to do so by
the Blasting Operator as announced by audible or visual signal.	H.	After each
blast, the blast area shall be examined for misfired holes.  If any are found,
or are suspected to exist, they shall be reported to the Blasting Operator.  If
it is not certain that all charges have been detonated, no person shall enter
the blast area until at least 45 minutes after the firing.	I.	No hole for
blasting shall be fired within 100 feet of any other hole which is loaded and
not intended to be fired at the same time.	J.	All detonators, fuzes, and
explosive materials left over after loading operations are completed shall be
promptly returned to their explosive magazines.
