                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

CLASS II AND III DRY CLEANING PLANTS. (§ 57.79.06)

  CLASS II AND III DRY CLEANING PLANTS.	A.	General: Class II and Class IIIA dry
cleaning plants shall be within buildings conforming to the requirements of
Chapter 9 of the L.A.M.C. (Building Code) for Group H, Division 3 Occupancies. 
Class IIIB dry cleaning plants shall be within buildings conforming to the
requirements for a Group B, Division 2 Occupancies.	B.	Location Within
Buildings: Dry cleaning rooms and solvent storage rooms shall be located only on
the first story.	C.	Plant Separations: Buildings containing Class II or Class
IIIA dry cleaning plants and their associated operations shall be separated from
all other businesses by not less than four-hour fire-resistive occupancy
separations.	EXCEPTIONS:	1.	Class II dry cleaning plants and associated
operations may be separated from other businesses by two-hour fire-resistive
occupancy separations when the total quantity of Class II liquids within the
building does not exceed 550 gallons and the capacity of individual containers
or tanks does not exceed 275 gallons.	2.	Class IIIA dry cleaning plants and
associated operations may be separated from other occupancies by two-hour
fire-resistive occupancy separations when the total quantities of Class IIIA
liquids within the building does not exceed 1,320 gallons and the capacity of
individual containers or tanks within the building does not exceed 330
gallons.	D.	Occupancy Separations:	1.	Dry Cleaning Rooms: Dry cleaning rooms
containing Class II or Class IIIA solvents shall be separated from other uses
including solvent storage, offices, laundering, scouring, scrubbing, pressing
and ironing operations by not less than two-hour fire-resistive occupancy
separations.	EXCEPTION:	Solvent storage tanks need not be separated from the dry
cleaning room when the capacity of each tank does not exceed 500 gallons,
provided there are not more than two storage tanks and the aggregate capacity of
all solvent tanks and containers within the room does not exceed 1,600
gallons.	Dry cleaning rooms containing Class IIIB solvents need not be separated
from other uses in the dry cleaning plant; however, the maximum capacity of any
containers or tanks within the room shall not exceed 500 gallons and the
capacity of all containers or tanks within the room shall not exceed 1,500
gallons.	2.	Solvent Storage: Except for solvent storage allowed within a dry
cleaning room in Subdivision 1 of 57.79.06-D, solvents stored within a plant
shall be within Hazardous Materials Rooms.	EXCEPTION:	Solvent storage for
scouring, brushing, and spotting operations may be stored in Hazardous Materials
Cabinets.	3.	Drying Rooms: Rooms or areas in which articles are hung up to dry
shall be separated from other uses by not less than two-hour fire-resistive
occupancy separations.	EXCEPTION:	Approved drying or deodorizing cabinets may be
located within dry cleaning rooms	4.	Rooms Containing Open Flames: Fuel-burning
equipment which generates an open flame shall be separated from rooms in which
solvents are used or stored by not less than four-hour fire-resistive occupancy
separations.  Openings to such rooms shall be at least 10 feet from any opening
into rooms containing solvents.	5.	Floors: Floors in rooms containing solvents
shall comply with the requirements of Chapter 9 of the L.A.M.C. (Building Code)
for rooms used for storage of flammable or combustible liquids.
