                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

MANUFACTURE OF ARTICLES CONTAINING EXPLOSIVE MATERIALS. (§ 57.70.21)

  MANUFACTURE OF ARTICLES CONTAINING EXPLOSIVE MATERIALS.	Every person
manufacturing, processing, assembling, or fabricating articles containing
explosive materials shall comply with all of the provisions of this
section.	A.	General Requirements:	1.	No unit or separate article of any
manufactured or assembled explosive material shall contain more than one-half
pound of explosive material.	2.	Emergency procedures shall be formulated for
each plant and building.  Fire and disaster drills shall be conducted and
records of such drills kept at the plant office.	3.	Employees who handle
explosive materials shall be instructed in the hazards of the materials involved
and processes in which they are to engage; and shall be made familiar with the
rules governing such materials and processes.	4.	Smoking is prohibited in
locations where explosive materials are present.  Matches, lighters, smoking
material and other sources of ignition are not permitted in such
locations.	5.	Instructions for operators shall be posted at or near each working
area.  Such instructions shall include amounts of explosive materials
permissible at the working area; number of persons permitted in the area at one
time; bonding of metal containers before pouring out contents; locking of
machinery in off position before working on it; cleaning agents to be used (if
any); and any other precautions deemed necessary due to characteristics of the
materials.	6.	The quantity of explosive materials present in a work room shall
not exceed the amount necessary for current operations and in no case shall the
amount exceed a one-half day supply of explosive materials.  Provided, however,
if in the opinion of the Chief a one-half day supply of explosive materials
would introduce an undue hazard, the maximum quantity may be limited to lesser
amounts.	7.	The maximum amount of explosive materials contained at any one time
in any one building used for the manufacture or assembly of products utilizing
or containing explosive materials shall be limited to 80 pounds, not more than
20 pounds of which shall be contained in the building in other than partially
completed or completed product units.	8.	The maximum permissible quantities of
explosive materials allowed by Subdivisions 6 and 7 of Subsection A of this
section shall be clearly indicated with suitable signs with letters not less
than three inches high.  No person shall allow the amount of explosive
materials in any one room or building to exceed the amount set forth upon the
posted sign for that room or building.	9.	Explosive materials shall be kept in
covered containers except when being used or processed.	10.	Waste receptacles
with tight fitting covers shall be provided at or just outside of each working
area for the disposal of waste material, cleaning rags, and other combustible
waste and debris.  Waste receptacles shall be emptied and cleaned as often as
necessary but at least at the end of each shift or the end of each
day.	11.	Spilled or dropped explosives shall be cleaned up at once before other
operations are continued.  Damaged or waste explosive materials, shipping
containers, cleaning rags, and other materials contaminated with explosive
materials shall be disposed of in accordance with the recommended practices
established by the manufacturer of the explosive materials used.	B.	Processing
Safeguards:	1.	Work areas shall be separated by distances, barriers, or other
means so that a fire at one area will not ignite material at another
area.	2.	Ventilation and dust-control equipment shall be of such type and so
installed and operated as not to endanger employees by possible ignition of
explosives.  Ducts shall be grounded and as short and straight as possible with
no capped outlets, pockets, or other dead-end spaces where explosives might
accumulate.	3.	Benches and other fixtures shall be of noncombustible materials
provided, however, that staticproof (conductive) coverings may be
used.	4.	Hydraulic and pneumatic presses, including hand jacks, shall be
provided with pressure relief valves so arranged and set that material in
process will not be subjected to pressures likely to cause it to explode.  Dies
and plugged press equipment shall not be cleared by striking blows that may
cause the material to detonate or burn.	5.	Mechanical screening, mixing, or
blending operations involving explosive materials shall only be carried on in
isolated areas or buildings used exclusively for such purposes, and, wherever
practicable, such operations shall be carried on with no personnel present
during the period the machinery is operating.  At least one set of power
controls shall be remotely located at a safe point from the screening, mixing,
or blending area.  If the operation requires the presence of employees, only
the least practicable number of employees shall be present, except that
additional employees may be present for purposes of instruction.	6.	Means shall
be provided whereby accumulated static electricity is removed from hand trucks,
buggies, and similar devices before they enter a building or work area.	7.	Wet
processes shall be used wherever practicable in mixing explosive
materials.	8.	Maintenance or repair work on machines shall not be done while
explosive materials are present in a building or work area; provided. however,
that this shall not prohibit minor adjustments or repairs where it would not be
practicable to clear the building or work area, nor shall it prohibit emergency
maintenance necessary to secure immediate safety.	9.	Suitable exterior
barricades, either natural or artificial, shall be provided on pressure relief
sides of building.  Due consideration shall be given to the effects of probable
flying missiles with particular attention to the safety of personnel.	C.	Test
Areas:	1.	Areas where explosive materials are detonated or burned shall be
fenced and posted with adequate warning signs.	2.	Audible and visible warning
devices shall be utilized to give suitable warning to nearby personnel before
detonating or burning any explosive materials.	3.	When tests are being conducted
or explosive materials are being detonated or burned for any purpose, only
authorized personnel shall be permitted within the test area
enclosure.	D.	Special Requirements: All operations or activity on a site within
which explosive materials are used, stored, or handled shall be subject to such
further additional or more restrictive requirements or conditions as the
Department may determine; these may include requirements or conditions as to
arrangements within buildings, including requirements for protective structures
or devices, rules and regulations respecting smoking, fires, combustion of any
kind, amounts and arrangements of material number and qualifications of
employees or other persons on the premises, or any other condition, requirement,
rule, or regulation determined by the Department to be necessary or appropriate
for the protection of persons or property. Any such determination may be
modified, amended, or enlarged, or superseded as the Department may at any time
determine.  The effective date and time of each determination shall be stated
therein and any determination which effects a change in one previously fixed may
be effective in 24 hours after service thereof, or later, as the officer
executing it may determine.  Failure to comply with or obey any determination
shall immediately effect a revocation of any Permit held by the person to whom
such determination is addressed.BLASTING
