                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

MOUNTING. (§ 57.84.06)

  MOUNTING.	Drying ovens shall be mounted on the ground, or on floors of
fire-resistive construction with noncombustible flooring or surface finish and
with no combustible material against the underside thereof, or on noncombustible
slabs or arches having no combustible material within 12 inches of the underside
thereof.  Such construction shall in all cases extend not less than 12 inches
beyond the perimeter of the oven.	EXCEPTIONS:	1.	Drying ovens which are designed
and constructed for installation on a combustible floor, and are approved, may
be mounted in accordance with the conditions of such approval.	2.	Drying ovens
which are set on legs which provide not less than 18 inches open space under the
base of the oven, may be mounted on floors other than as specified above
provided there is at least one sheet metal baffle between any burners and the
floor, and provided the oven is so arranged that flame or hot gases do not come
in contact with its base.	3.	Drying ovens which are set on legs which provide
not less than four inches open space under the base of the oven may be mounted
on floors other than as specified above provided the oven is so arranged that
flame or hot gases do not come in contact with its base, and further provided
the floor under the oven is protected with hollow masonry not less than four
inches in thickness, covered with sheet metal of not less than 24 gauge.  Such
masonry course shall be laid with ends unsealed and joints matched in such a way
as to provide a free circulation of air from end to end through the
masonry.	4.	Drying ovens may be mounted on floors other than specified above,
provided the floor under the oven is protected by two courses of four inch
hollow clay tile, or equivalent, with courses laid at right angles and with ends
unsealed and joints matched in such a way as to provide a free circulation of
air through such masonry courses, and covered with steel plate of not less than
three-sixteenths inch in thickness.VENTS AND FLUES FROM HEATING SYSTEMS AND OVEN
EXHAUSTS
