                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SUSPENDED OPERATION OF OIL WELLS. (§ 57.90.41)

  SUSPENDED OPERATION OF OIL WELLS.	A.	The Chief may grant a Special Permit for
suspended operation of an oil well when producing operations have ceased or have
been curtailed for any of the reasons set forth in this subsection.	1.	A
proration or conservation program required by or authorized by any
law.	2.	Compliance with a court order.	3.	A voluntary proration or conservation
program determined by the Chief to have been initiated in good faith and not for
the purpose for evading the provisions of this division.	4.	The abandonment of
the oil well would impose practical difficulties, unnecessary hardships, or
results inconsistent with reasonable and proper exploitation of petroleum or
natural gas deposits.	B.	The permittee, owner of the premises, or the person
having control of the oil and gas rights thereof, desiring a Special Permit for
suspended operation, shall file an application therefor on forms provided by the
Fire Department.  Said application shall state in detail the circumstances
which preclude the operation and production of any such oil well and the factual
basis therefor, together with reasonable evidence that the oil well is
economically capable of producing petroleum or natural gas and shall also
contain any other pertinent representations as may be required by the
Chief.	C.	If the Chief determines that the request for suspended operation to be
within the spirit of this section, then a Special Permit for suspended operation
shall be issued.	D.	The duration of a Special Permit for suspended operation of
an oil well shall be for a fixed period of time set forth on the face of the
Permit, but in no case for a period of more than one year.  The provision of
this subsection shall not prohibit the renewal of a Special Permit for suspended
operation of an oil well, provided such renewal is within the spirit and purpose
of this section.	E.	Notwithstanding any other provision of this section to the
contrary, a Special Permit for suspended operation of an oil well shall be valid
only during the time that there is a valid Permit for the operation of the oil
well as provided in Division 4 of this article.
