                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DUTIES OF THE TERMINAL SUPERINTENDENT. (§ 57.95.45)

  DUTIES OF THE TERMINAL SUPERINTENDENT.	The Terminal Superintendent
shall:	A.	Prior to the starting of cargo pumps for transferring operations,
confer with the tank vessel officer, inspect the wharf and the vessel if
necessary, as set forth in Sections 57.95.26 and 57.95.27 of this
division.	B.	Be responsible to see that not less than two qualified employees
are in attendance, one of whom shall be on the wharf, and performing required
duties in connection with transfer operations at an times when such operations
are in progress between any tank vessel or terminal.  One additional wharf man
shall be provided for each additional ship or tank vessel.	C.	Be responsible for
the observance of an safety precautions prescribed, and shall instruct all
terminal employees in the proper use of all firefighting equipment provided for
the protection of terminal facilities and tank vessels in connection
therewith.	D.	Ascertain that signals and placards are displayed as
required.	E.	Not permit fires or open flame in any location in violation of this
article.	F.	Cause cargo hose to be properly connected and control valves
properly manned.	G.	See that the terminal crew is properly stationed and
sufficiently instructed to perform transfer operations.	H.	See that no cargo is
transferred to any tank vessel where in his opinion a competent ship’s crew is
not present, or where in his opinion unsafe conditions prevail aboard the
vessel.	I.	See that all tank vessel loading connections are through the
vessel’s pipe lines and not through an open hose in a hatch, except as
provided in Section 57.95.36 of this division.	J.	Before giving approval to
start transfer operations, obtain from the Master or responsible tank vessel
officer a signed statement that all safety requirements for which the Master is
responsible, have been complied with as specified elsewhere in this division. 
The Terminal Superintendent shall review the statement of the tank vessel
officer and certify thereon that he has noted the same.  This statement shall
be available for inspection by the Chief.	K.	Prohibit unauthorized or apparently
intoxicated or disorderly persons from entering the dock or wharf or boarding
the vessel.  When the transfer of petroleum to or from the vessel has been
discontinued, and when the vessel is ready for sea, the Terminal Superintendent
shall supervise the movement of any such person to the vessel on which he is
assigned taking such precautions as are warranted under the circumstances to
assure safe conduct.	L.	Prohibit operation of automotive equipment within a
distance of 100 feet of any tank vessel transferring liquefied petroleum gases
or Grade A, B, C, D, or E products when tanks have previously contained Grade A,
B, or C products and have not been purged of such vapors, except electrically
operated automotive equipment approved for use in hazardous locations.  In the
event of a vapor emergency, he shall prohibit entrance of all vehicles except
Fire Department equipment to the terminal property and shall prohibit the
starting or operation of all vehicles already parked on the terminal property,
except on his approval or if the Fire Department is present, on approval of
officer in command.	M.	Have on file a correct list of all products being loaded
or discharged.  Such list shall include the name, flash point, and United
States Coast Guard classification of the commodity.
