                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

FIRE EQUIPMENT – ARRANGEMENT. (§ 57.95.07)

  FIRE EQUIPMENT – ARRANGEMENT.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 167,326, Eff. 11/16/91.)	Any one of the following means of
providing approved fire protection equipment may be considered a minimum
requirement for the use of Marine Oil Terminal docks or wharfs:	A.	Hose cabinets
or houses shall be provided at each required Class II standpipe outlet
location.  Each hose cabinet or house shall be provided with not more than 350
feet of one and one-half inch or two and one-half inch hose equipped with a
nozzle tip with a minimum bore of five-eighths inch or one inch.  Except as
provided in Section 57.95.06, the hose shall be coupled in a continuous line and
shall be attached to the outlets at all times for immediate use.  Each hose
cabinet or house shall be equipped with a hose and a combination hydrant
spanner.	B.	At all times when tank vessels are at any Marine Oil Terminal wharf,
there shall be an approved hose reel equipped with not less than 350 feet of one
and one-half inch hose, and a five-eighths inch nozzle tip, stationed on the
wharf as near as practical to the stern and bow of the tank
vessel.	EXCEPTION:	Where Class II standpipe outlets are so spaced it will only
be necessary to provide hose on reels as to permit two hose streams to be
brought together at any point on the wharf and operated simultaneously. 
Approved hose reels shall be stored in a location approved by the Chief, when
such equipment is not in use during operations.  Each hose reel shall be
equipped with a suitable hose and combination hydrant spanner attached to the
female end of hose.	C.	Where protection set forth in A or B is not in use, each
hydrant or Class II standpipe outlet over the full length of the vessel shall
have not more than 350 feet of hose connected and ready for use.  The hose
shall be flaked out on the wharf with nozzle tip attached.  Each hydrant so
equipped shall be provided with a suitable spanner in place on the hydrant
stem.	D.	Other equivalent fire protection arrangements approved by the
Chief.FOAM PROTECTION
