                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

METHOD OF ABANDONMENT. (§ 57.90.44)

  METHOD OF ABANDONMENT.	For the purpose of abandoning an oil well, the
following shall apply to the person to whom the notice is directed:	A.	In
addition to being plugged in accordance with the laws of the State of
California, every such oil well and the space between the surface casing and any
water string which is not removed from the well shall be filled with a good
grade rotary mud weighing not less than 70 pounds per cubic foot. Filling shall
begin at the uppermost sealing plug required by laws or regulations of the State
of California and shall be capped with at least 100 lineal feet of cement
downward from the floor level of the cellar but not less than six feet below
grade.  Such cement cap shall be inside the casing and the water string and
shall be covered at the cellar floor level by a steel plate of the same
thickness and with the same inside diameter as the casing.  Such plate shall be
welded throughout its entire circumference to the casing with at least three
welding passes and the LAFD number of the oil well shall be arc welded on the
plate using noncorrosive welding rod.  All such welding shall be performed by a
certified welder.  Cement caps shall be composed of one part cement to not more
than two and one-half parts sand and not more than three and one half parts
gravel or crushed rock.  The derricks, including all derrick parts, shall be
dismantled and removed from the premises immediately after the well hole has
been plugged and sealed. (Amended by Ord. No. 167,326, Eff.
11/16/91)	EXCEPTION:	Neat cement may be used for the surface plug when installed
by an approved cementing company.	B.	Every gravity tank, still, retort, blowdown
stack, boiler, pump, gas lift, pipe line, and all other appurtenances and
machinery used in connection with any such oil well, shall be dismantled and
removed from the premises.  All foundations and dikes shall be demolished and
removed.  All pump suction pits, reservoirs, cellars, and catch basins shall be
filled with a good grade of earth or sand, and all such premises shall be
restored to their natural surface conditions.
