                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

LOCATION OF OIL WELLS. (§ 57.90.01)

  LOCATION OF OIL WELLS.	A.	The center of the oil well casing shall not be
closer than 50 feet from the nearest side of any street.	B.	The center of the
oil well casing shall not be closer than 50 feet from the opposite side of any
alley adjoining the outer boundary of the operating unit and 16 feet from the
nearest side of any alley passing through the operating unit.	C.	The center of
the oil well casing shall not be closer than 50 feet from every house trailer
located within a trailer park.	D.	The center of the oil well casing shall not be
closer than 50 feet from any building less than 36 feet in height when such
building has an aggregate floor area in excess of 400 square feet.  The minimum
horizontal distance from the center of the oil well casing to a building 36 feet
or more in height shall be one and one-half times the height of the building but
need not exceed 200 feet.  To determine the height of a building, it shall be
measured vertically from the adjacent ground elevation adjoining such building
to the ceiling of the top story.	EXCEPTIONS:	1.	The provisions of this
subsection shall not apply to the derrick or any structure used in conjunction
with the drilling operation.	2.	The distance separation between a building and
an oil well may be reduced to:	a.	35 feet if a solid reinforced masonry wall not
less than six feet high and six inches thick is constructed between the oil well
and all portions of the building which are less than 50 feet from the oil
well;	b.	25 feet if all walls of the building which are located less than 50
feet from the oil well are of one-hour fire-resistive construction, have no
openings, and are surmounted by a three-foot parapet;	c.	15 feet if all walls of
the building which are located less than 50 feet from the oil well are of
two-hour fire-resistive construction, have no openings, and are surmounted by a
three-foot high parapet.	E.	The center of the oil well casing shall not be
closer than 200 feet from any building used for the housing of human beings on
any premises where there is located a school, hospital, sanitarium, or assembly
occupancy, nor within 200 feet of any public utility fuel manufacturing plant,
public utility electrical generating, receiving, or distributing plant.	F.	The
center of the oil well casing shall not be closer than 200 feet from every
gasholder exceeding 2,000 cubic feet.	G.	The center of the oil well casing shall
not be closer than 200 feet from every loading rack located on a bulk
distributing station.	H.	The center of the oil well casing shall not be closer
than 200 feet from every tank or vessel containing hazardous materials, except
tanks used exclusively for production and shipping in connection with such oil
wells.	I.	The center of the oil well casing shall not be closer than 50 feet
from the fire box opening of every stationary boiler, water heater, or gas fired
separator.	J.	The center of the oil well casing shall not be closer than 150
feet from the surface location of any other oil well whether such well is
producing or not.  Closer spacing may be permitted subject to terms and
conditions specified by the Chief in writing; provided, however, that the number
of wells shall not exceed that number permitted by any law, and in no case no
more than one well shall be drilled for each net acre and the surface location
of any such well shall comply with all other spacing requirements of this
Section.	EXCEPTIONS:	1.	This spacing shall not apply to any controlled drilling
site in any oil drilling district established in an urbanized area as set forth
in Article 3, Chapter I, of the L.A.M.C. (Zoning Code).	2.	This spacing shall
not apply to any Class “B” oil well used and maintained as provided in this
article.
