                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

COLLISION BARRIERS AND SECURITY FENCES. (§ 57.90.37)

  COLLISION BARRIERS AND SECURITY FENCES.	A.	No person owning or having
possession or control of any oil well within the City shall maintain or allow to
exist thereon any moving parts or machinery-in-use or intended to be used at
such oil well, unless such machinery or moving parts are securely enclosed by an
adequate noncombustible ventilated type security fence, screen, or housing
sufficient to prevent the entry of unauthorized persons.  Such security fence
or screen shall be not less than five feet high, and if equipped with gates,
such gates must not be less than five feet high and equipped with adequate
hardware to prevent the entry of unauthorized persons.  A single adequate
security fence, screen, or housing may be used to enclose more than one oil
well. Security fences, screens, or housings required by this subsection shall be
approved by the Chief.	EXCEPTION:	This subsection shall not apply if a competent
person is in constant attendance, 24 hours a day, at each oil well.	B.	Where
wells are located in an area accessible to vehicular traffic, in addition to a
security fence there shall be a collision barrier.  The collision barrier shall
be constructed of posts spaced a maximum of four feet on center and shall be set
in concrete or in steel sleeves which are encased in concrete.  Such posts
shall be at least five feet in length, with two feet below ground and shall not
be less than four-inch diameter, Schedule 40 iron pipe filled with concrete. 
Collision barriers shall be located outside the security fence and shall not be
less than 10 feet from the center of the oil well casing.	EXCEPTION:	The Chief
may approve the omission of all or part of both the security fence and collision
barrier when, by such omission, the well head and appurtenances will not be
exposed to damage from moving vehicles, other heavy objects, or will not be
accessible to any unauthorized persons.  The terms of any such approval shall
be in writing and shall become a condition of the Permit authorizing the
installation, maintenance, and use of such well head and appurtenances.SUSPENDED
OPERATIONS OR ABANDONMENT OF OIL WELLS
