                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

NUISANCES – SUMMARY ABATEMENT OF MOSQUITO BREEDING SOURCES. (§ 58.03)

  NUISANCES – SUMMARY ABATEMENT OF MOSQUITO BREEDING SOURCES.
	(Added by Ord. No. 176,240, Eff. 10/23/04.)	A.	Any standing water on private
property which has become a breeding source for mosquitos is hereby declared to
be a public nuisance and an immediate threat to the public health safety and
welfare of the citizens of Los Angeles.	B.	When the Health Officer or an officer
of any Los Angeles County Vector Control District acting under any authority
vested in him or her finds any standing water on private property which has
become a breeding source for mosquitoes, said officer may issue a written order
to abate the standing water or other condition within the City of Los Angeles
that endangers the public health, safety and welfare of the citizens of Los
Angeles.  The owner or other person or persons responsible for the private
property where the breeding source was found shall have 72 hours to abate or
eliminate the condition which created the breeding source for mosquitos.  Upon
the issuance of the notice to abate the nuisance created by the breeding source
for mosquitos, the owner or other person or persons responsible for the private
property may at no cost to the owner or responsible person request that the
vector control district abate the standing water as a source of breeding
mosquitos.  The owner or responsible person may also choose to abate the
nuisance within the 72 hours allowed.  Any owner or responsible person who
fails to comply with a 72 hour nuisance abatement order issued pursuant to this
section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor pursuant to L.A.M.C. Section
11.00(m).	C.	If any officer as described in this code who is lawfully on private
property finds a nuisance as described above and is unable to contact the owner
or other person or persons responsible for the private property in question
within twenty-four hours, said officer may summarily abate the nuisance at no
cost to the owner or responsible person.  If a nuisance has been abated without
the knowledge or permission of the owner or other responsible person, then the
abating officer shall post a notice on the property in a prominent place that
explains exactly where and what steps were taken to abate the nuisance. 	D.	If
an owner or responsible person who has been cited to abate a nuisance within 72
hours fails to do so, any officer described herein may then summarily abate the
nuisance.  All costs incurred to abate the nuisance pursuant to this section
shall be a personal obligation against the owner or person or persons
responsible for the creation or maintenance of the nuisance, recoverable by the
abating organization in an action before any court of competent jurisdiction. 
These costs shall include an amount equal to 40 percent of the cost to perform
the actual work, but not less than the sum of $100.00, to cover the costs for
doing the work, administering any contract to do the work and/or supervising the
work required.  In addition to this personal obligation and all other remedies
provided by law, the abating organization may collect any judgment, fee, cost,
or charge, including any permit fees, fines, late charges, or interest, incurred
in relation to the provisions of this section as provided in Los Angeles
Administrative Code Sections 7.35.1 through 7.35.8.
