                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ABATEMENT OF EROSION OR FLOOD HAZARD. (§ 61.02)

  ABATEMENT OF EROSION OR FLOOD HAZARD.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 181,701, Eff. 6/12/11.)	(a)	Whenever it appears that any
grading project previously commenced pursuant to a permit issued by the Board or
the Department of Building and Safety will not be completed prior to the
commencement of the rainy season as defined in Section 91.7007.1 of this Code,
the Board may require that the permittee prepare and submit plans for the
installation of temporary erosion control devices not later than September 15
preceding the rainy season.  The plans shall be prepared in accordance with
standards maintained by the City Engineer.  Every permittee submitting a plan
for the installation of temporary erosion control devices shall pay a fee in the
amount of $250.00 to the Bureau of Engineering for the Bureau’s review of the
plan.  The Board of Public Works may adjust this fee and adopt a new fee amount
in the same manner as provided in Section 12.37 I.(1) for establishing a fee to
process an appeal from an improvement requirement determination by the City
Engineer.	(b)	In addition to requirements in Subsection (a) of this Section,
whenever it appears that any grading project previously commenced pursuant to a
permit issued by the Board or the Department of Building and Safety will not be
completed prior to the commencement of the rainy season as defined in Section
91.7007.1 of this Code, the Board may require a permittee to install desilting
basins not later than October 15 preceding the rainy season, and other temporary
erosion control devices not later than December 1 of the rainy
season.	(c)	Should a permittee fail to comply with either Subsection (a) or (b)
of this Section, and the Board determines that the public health, safety or
general welfare is endangered by the failure, the Board or an authorized agent
may enter upon the premises described in the permit to abate the public nuisance
by installing temporary erosion devices by whatever means it deems
appropriate.	(d)	All costs incurred by the Board or its authorized agents
pursuant to Subsection (c) of this Section shall be a personal obligation of the
permittee and of the property owner, recoverable by the City before any court of
competent jurisdiction.  The costs shall include an amount equal to 40 percent
of the cost to perform the actual work, but not less than the sum of $100.00, to
pay the City’s costs for administering any contract to perform the work and
supervising the work.  In addition to this personal obligation and all other
remedies provided by law, the City may collect any judgment, fee, cost or
charge, including any permit fees, fines, late charges or interest, incurred
pursuant to the provisions of this Section, as provided in Los Angeles
Administrative Code Section 7.35.1 through 7.35.8.
