                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

NOTIFICATION AND LOCATION REQUIREMENTS. (§ 62.03.1)

  NOTIFICATION AND LOCATION REQUIREMENTS.
	(Added by Ord. No. 150,478, Eff. 2/6/78.)	Each permittee shall ascertain the
location of any subsurface installation within the street at or adjacent to the
location of the permittee’s proposed excavation and shall further ascertain
whether any such installation carries an unstable substance. Before any work of
excavation is commenced, the permittee shall, at least two working days before
the commencement of such work, notify the owner of any subsurface installation
as to the location of the permittee’s proposed excavation and the date and
time when work is scheduled to commence, or shall notify any central clearing
house established for such purpose, or both, as such notification may be
directed by the City Engineer.	In the event the proposed excavation is
ascertained to be adjacent to and within six feet of the location of a
subsurface installation carrying any unstable substance, the permittee shall
cause potholes to be excavated as follows:	1.	Where any such subsurface
installation crosses a street transversely at the location of the proposed
excavation, at least two potholes shall be excavated at each such transverse
crossing; and	2.	Where any such subsurface installation runs longitudinal to the
street, potholes shall be excavated at intervals of 100 feet.	Potholes shall be
excavated at closer intervals than 100 feet or in excess of the minimum number
required at transverse crossings if such additional potholes are needed in order
to adequately locate any such subsurface installation. Power tools shall not be
used for excavating potholes except for breaking pavement. Other approved
locating methods may be substituted for potholing provided that the permittee
has first obtained written permission therefor from the City Engineer.	The
permittee shall hold harmless and indemnify the City, its officers agents and
employees of and from any and all liability or responsibility for any property
damage or loss or injury or death to any person arising out of or occurring as
the proximate result of any of the excavation.
