                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

REMOVAL OF OBSTRUCTING STRUCTURES. (§ 62.01)

  REMOVAL OF OBSTRUCTING STRUCTURES.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 121,900, Eff. 6/4/62.)	(a)	Board to Notify Owner. 
Whenever the Board determines that any property located in, upon, over, or under
any public street, public place, or public easement in this City must be
temporarily or permanently relocated or removed for public safety, necessity,
welfare, or convenience, in order that public works, improvements or landscaping
may be installed, constructed, or erected along any such public street, public
place, or public easement, the Board shall give written notice to the person
owning, maintaining, or controlling such property to relocate or remove the same
as the Board shall determine. Such notice shall describe the property to be
removed or relocated with particularity.	Such written notices will be issued
only for improvements, works, or landscaping done by this City or other
governmental agency or instrumentality in a government capacity.	(b)	Prosecution
of Work.  Within ten days after the giving of such notice, the work of
relocating or removing the property designated in the notice shall be commenced
and such work shall thereafter be diligently prosecuted to completion.	(c)	Board
May Complete Work and Recover Costs.  In the event such person shall neglect,
fail, or refuse, within ten days after the giving of such notice, to begin the
work of relocating or removing the property designated in the notice, or shall
fail to prosecute such work diligently to completion, the Board shall have the
power to relocate or remove the property designated in the notice. The cost
necessarily incurred by the Board in doing such work may be recovered by the
City from such person.	(d)	Remedies Cumulative.  Punishment for violation of
the penal provisions of this section shall be cumulative and in addition to the
powers conferred herein on the Board. Enforcement of the penal provisions of
this section shall not constitute a bar to the exercise by the Board of the
powers conferred upon it by this section, nor shall the exercise by the Board of
the powers conferred upon it by this section constitute a bar to a criminal
prosecution for the violation of the penal provisions of this section.
