                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

EXCAVATIONS IN AND ADJACENT TO STREETS – CHARGES. (§ 62.05)

  EXCAVATIONS IN AND ADJACENT TO STREETS – CHARGES.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 121,900, Eff. 6/4/62.)	(a)	Excavation Permit Fees. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 182,237, Eff. 9/28/12.)	1.	Fixed Fee Permits.  For an
excavation of 1,000 square feet of area or less, except for fees subject to the
provisions of Subdivision 2. of this Subsection, the Bureau of Engineering shall
charge and collect the following permit and inspection fees:	(aa)	Excavation
Utility (U) Permit.  Excavation utility (U) permits are issued to public
utilities regulated by the Public Utilities Commission of the State of
California, and except for permits subject to the provisions of Subdivision 2.
of this Subsection, the fee to process an excavation (U) permit is $185.  The
fee to inspect each U permit of an excavation area of 99 square feet or less is
$114, and the fee to inspect an area of more than 99 square feet but less than
1,000 square feet is $2.20 per square foot.	(bb)	Excavation (E) Permit.  Except
for permits subject to the provisions of Subdivision 2. of this Subsection, the
fee to process an excavation (E) permit is $425.  The fee to inspect each E
permit of an excavation area of 99 square feet or less is $114, and the fee to
inspect an area of more than 99 square feet but less than 1,000 square feet is
$2.20 per square foot.	(cc)	Special Inspection Charges.  In addition to the
fees identified in Paragraphs (aa) and (bb) of this Subdivision, the Bureau of
Engineering may, when the Bureau of Engineering or the Bureau of Contract
Administration determines that additional inspections beyond those ordinarily
required in overseeing work permitted by an excavation utility (U) permit or
excavation (E) permit are required, charge a fee for additional inspections. 
The fee for conducting additional inspections pursuant to the provisions of this
Paragraph is $95 per hour, except that there will be a minimum four hour charge
of $380 for inspections on weekends or on any day determined to be a holiday
pursuant to the provisions of Section 4.119 of the Los Angeles Administrative
Code.	The charges authorized by this Paragraph shall apply to all fixed fees
imposed or collected by the Bureau of Engineering for the issuance or
administration of any permit authorized by this Code where the Bureau of
Engineering or the Bureau of Contract Administration requires inspections in
addition to those paid for by the underlying fee.	2.	Actual Cost Permits.  The
fee to process a (U) or (E) excavation permit for an excavation of more than
1,000 square feet in area, or to process a (U) or (E) excavation permit for an
excavation of 1,000 square feet or less in area where the Bureau of Engineering
determines that due to the complexity of the permitted work it would cost more
to issue and administer a permit than would be collected pursuant to the
provisions of Subdivision 1. of this Subsection, is the actual cost of services
provided by the City for issuance and oversight of the permit and the permitted
project, except for costs that may be incurred by a Proprietary Department
subject to the provisions of Article VI of the City Charter, and except for the
Street Damage Restoration Fee and the Slurry Seal Damage Restoration Fee.  The
actual cost determination shall include, but not be limited to, all direct and
indirect labor costs, retirement and overhead costs, costs for plan checking and
engineering services, project inspection costs, and the costs of testing
materials.  Before the Bureau of Engineering may issue a permit subject to the
provisions of this Subdivision, the applicant must deposit with the Bureau an
amount that the Bureau estimates will be the actual costs owed pursuant to the
provisions of this Subdivision.	For permits and projects that are subject to the
provisions of this Subdivision, if before completion of the permitted project
the Bureau of Engineering determines that additional funds are needed to
compensate the City for the actual cost of issuance and oversight of the permit
and permitted project, the City may halt all work on the project for which the
application was made and require the applicant to pay the amount that the Bureau
estimates will be needed to compensate the City for the actual cost of providing
its services.  At the conclusion of providing the requested services, if actual
costs to the City are less than the amount deposited, the applicant shall be
refunded the difference.  The City shall not approve any permitted project
until all monies owed pursuant to the provisions of this Subdivision are paid. 
Notwithstanding the first sentence of this Subdivision, the City reserves the
right to impose additional fees and charges for services provided or costs
incurred that were not included in the basis of the determination of the actual
cost of City services.	3.	Tie-Back Fees.  In addition to the fees imposed
pursuant to the provisions of Subdivisions 1. and 2. of this Subsection, the
following fees shall apply to excavations requiring shoring that contain
tie-backs:	(aa) 	For each tie-back installed in a public right-of-way, a fee of
$605.	(bb)	For each de-tensioned anchor rod left in place less than 20 feet
below the street surface within a public right-of-way, a fee of
$2,040.	4.	Resurfacing Charges.  When an excavation subject to the provisions
of Paragraph (bb) of Subdivision 1. of this Subsection requires the resurfacing
of public streets or alleys, or replacing sidewalks, curbs or gutters, the
Bureau of Engineering shall charge and collect applicable fees identified in
Subsection (b) of Section 62.109.	(b)	Resurfacing Charges.	1.	Schedule of
Fees.  (Amended by Ord. No. 157,341, Eff. 2/13/83.)	aa.	The Board, with
concurrence of the Director of the Office of Administrative and Research
Services (Amended by Ord. No. 173,363, Eff. 7/29/00, Oper. 7/1/00.) shall
determine on a regular basis, the verifiable costs of the City for services
provided by the City whenever the improved surface of an excavated or damaged
street is replaced by the Board, or the restoration of an unimproved surface of
a street is subject to inspection by the Board. Those costs shall be used by the
Board to develop, and at any time during each fiscal year but not later than
April 1 the Board shall adopt a cost recovery schedule of applicable charges
necessary to recover City costs of inspection and other services performed with
respect to a specific type of work or improvement.	For the purposes of this
section, the word “excavation,” or any derivation thereof, shall mean each
single continuous broken surface area of a street, sidewalk, driveway, curb,
pavement or gutter.	The schedule of charges shall be based upon verifiable costs
of surface replacement or restoration, including inspection costs, direct labor
and material costs, retirement costs on direct labor, and departmental and
general City overhead applicable to the inspection or the type of work or
improvement involved. It shall take into consideration the number of permits
issued and affected by those charges within the period of time used for
reference in the development of charges. Charges for unimproved areas or areas
permanently resurfaced by a permittee, for asphalt concrete pavement, for
concrete pavement, gutter, or driveway, and for concrete sidewalks shall be
measured at a rate per square foot; for concrete curbs at a rate per linear
foot; and for leakage detection holes and for stake holes, at a rate for each
hole.	The schedule shall also provide for, and the Board shall collect, a
minimum charge applicable to each particular type of work or improvement
otherwise in effect under the schedule. The minimum charge shall be calculated
on the following basis:	(1)	For unimproved areas or areas permanently resurfaced
by a permittee, a minimum charge equal to the City charge in effect for a unit
of 100 square feet of such work;	(2)	For asphalt concrete pavement, and for a
concrete pavement gutter, driveway, or sidewalk, a minimum charge equal to the
City charge in effect for a unit of 10 square feet of such work;	(3)	For
concrete curb, a minimum charge equal to the City charge in effect for a unit of
3 linear feet of such work; and	(4)	For leakage detection and stake holes, a
minimum charge equal to the City charge in effect for a unit of 4
holes.	bb.	Upon the adoption of a schedule of verified costs by the Board as
provided herein, the Board shall transmit copies of the Board order to the Mayor
and to the City Council. At any time within 30 days after the receipt of the
Board order, the Mayor, by writing, or the Council, by majority vote, may
disapprove the Board order. If neither the Mayor nor the City Council
disapproves the Board order within the 30-day period, the schedule shall become
effective, and the Board shall collect charges according to the new
schedule.	2.	Minimum Charge for Each Type of Resurfacing.  The minimum charge
for each permit to cover the cost of inspection of the restoration of unimproved
areas will only be made when no other type of resurfacing is included in the
permits. If another type of resurfacing is included, the charge for inspection
of the restoration of unimproved areas will be based upon the actual area
excavated times the unit charge for such inspection. The minimum charges for all
other types of resurfacing will be made, when applicable, whenever any such
resurfacing is actually placed regardless of whether one or more types of
resurfacing is involved.	3.	Minimum Charge for a Permit.  On permits issued
where no resurfacing is actually done, a minimum charge of $31.00 will be
made.  The fee herein shall be adjusted, if required, in order to recover the
City’s administrative costs, and adopted in the same manner as provided in
Section 12.37 I.1. of the Los Angeles Municipal Code for establishing fees. 
(Amended by Ord. No 168,734, Eff. 5/31/93.)	(c)	(Repealed by Ord. No. 182,237,
Eff. 9/28/12.)	(d)	(Repealed by Ord. No. 182,237, Eff. 9/28/12.)	(e)	(Repealed
by Ord. No. 182,237, Eff. 9/28/12.)	(f)	(Repealed by Ord. No. 182,237, Eff.
9/28/12.)	(g)	(Repealed by Ord. No. 182,237, Eff. 9/28/12.)
