                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

EXCAVATION IN AND ADJACENT TO STREETS – PERFORMANCE OF THE WORK (§ 62.04)

  EXCAVATION IN AND ADJACENT TO STREETS – PERFORMANCE OF THE WORK
	(Amended by Ord. No. 171,924, Eff. 3/27/98.)	(a)	Work Subject to Provisions
Governing Performance.  Performance of work authorized by an excavation permit
issued under the provisions of Section 62.02 shall be governed by the provisions
of this section.	EXCEPTION:  Performance of work in connection with the
installation of sewer or storm drain connections shall be governed by the
provisions of Section 64.17 and performance of work being done under the Permit
“A” and Permit “B” provisions of this article or under contract with the
Board is governed by the provisions of the current Standard Specifications of
the Department of Public Works.	(b)	Notification of Start of Work.  The
permittee shall notify the Bureau of Contract Administration, not less than one
working day prior to starting work on any excavation which will extend 100
square feet or more in area and is governed by the provisions of this section. 
In the case of an excavation being made by a department of this City, such
notification shall be made by the responsible supervisor.	(c)	Prosecution of
Work.  Unless otherwise provided in special conditions on the permit governing
the dates and hours during which work is to done, the work of making and
refilling an excavation shall be prosecuted diligently and continuously until
completion so as not to obstruct traffic on any roadway or sidewalk longer than
is actually necessary.	If the responsible party shall fail, refuse, or neglect
to promptly refill any excavation or to promptly perform any other necessary
work, the Board may perform such work, and in cases where funds are on deposit
with the City in connection with the permit under which the excavation or work
is being performed, the cost of the work performed by the Board may be deducted
from such deposit.	(d)	Permits to Be Kept on Job Site.  Except for work being
done prior to the issuance of a permit as authorized by the emergency provisions
of Subdivisions 6 of the Subsection (a) of Section 62.02, the original or a copy
of any permit for the making and backfilling of an excavation shall be kept at
all times while work is in progress at the location for which such permit was
granted.  Upon demand, such permit shall be shown to any member or inspector of
the Board or to any police officer.	(e)	Lateral Support.  All excavations shall
be performed and all facilities constructed and maintained so as to afford
lateral, sublateral, adjacent, and overhead support to the surrounding
embankments and  structures.  The approval of any plans submitted or the
issuance of a permit does not relieve  the permittee from full responsibility
for any damage or injury caused by his operations.  Neither the City nor any of
its officers or employees shall be liable or responsible for any such damage or
injuries.	(f)	Safety.  All work in any public street, public place, or public
easement shall be performed in strict accordance with the safety provisions of
Title 8 of the State of California Administrative Code.  Failure by a permittee
to adhere to such safety provisions will be cause for the Board to impound the
deposit or bond submitted by the permittee in compliance with Section 62.02
until all charges by the City have been met.	(g)	Methods of Removal.  No
material shall be removed from any street in any manner which would render such
street impassable or dangerous to public travel.	(h)	Excavations Through Cement
Surfaces.  When an excavation is to be made through a sidewalk or other
Portland cement concrete surface, all work shall be done in accordance with the
latest specifications established by the Board or the City
Engineer.	(i)	Provisions for Traffic Safety.  Unless otherwise authorized by
the Board, anyone making an excavation in any roadway or sidewalk shall provide
and maintain safe crossings for vehicular and pedestrian traffic.  Crossings
for vehicular traffic shall be made at all street and alley intersections.  If
an excavation is made across an alley, or the roadway portion of any other
street, at least one safe crossing for vehicles shall be provided and
maintained.  Pedestrian crossings shall be separate from vehicular crossings
and shall be provided with handrails.  One such pedestrian crossing shall be
provided at each street intersection, and at intervals of not more than 300
feet.  If an excavation is made across the sidewalk portion of any street, a
crossing for pedestrians shall be provided and maintained.	Additional traffic
provisions, particularly in important traffic arteries, may be specified by the
City Engineer.  Provisions so specified will become a condition of the permit
and be binding upon the permittee.	(j)	Traffic Control in Work Areas.  Warning
signs, barriers, barricades, guidance devices and lights, shall be furnished,
placed, and maintained in conformance with the current manual entitled “Work
Area Traffic Control Handbook (WATCH)” approved by the Board.	If the warning
signs, lights, and devices required under this section are not promptly
provided, the Board may provide them; the cost of such work performed by the
Board may be recovered in the manner provided in Section 62.05(a) of this
Code.	(k)	Site Maintenance.	(1)	Access to Hydrants and Water Valves.  Free
access must be provided at all times to all fire hydrants and water
valves.	(2)	Confinement of Excavated Material.  When excavated material is
placed adjacent to the excavation, it shall be placed in such a manner as to
economize space and minimize interference with traffic.  If necessary, such
material shall be confined by suitable bulkheads or other devices.  If the
street is not of sufficient width to hold excavated material without using part
of an adjacent walkway, a passageway at least one-half the width of such walkway
shall be kept open at all times.	(3)	Maintenance of Gutters.  All gutters shall
be maintained free and unobstructed for the full depth of the adjacent curb and
for at least one foot in width from the face of such curb at the gutter line. 
Whenever a gutter crosses an intersecting street, an adequate waterway shall be
provided and maintained.	(l)	Backfilling.  Unless a specific backfill material
is required on the permit, backfill material, installation and compaction shall
be in accordance with the latest standards and specifications established by the
Board or the City Engineer.	(m)	Resurfacing.	(1)	Temporary Resurfacing.  Except
as otherwise provided herein, after completion of backfilling operations, the
portion of the paved surface of any public street or public place excavated or
damaged shall be immediately resurfaced with temporary resurfacing material by
the permittee.  Temporary resurfacing shall consist of premixed bituminous
material conforming to the specifications for material to be used for such
purpose contained in the current Standard Specifications of the Department of
Public Works.  Such resurfacing after compaction shall be not less than one
inch thick in sidewalk areas and not less than two inches thick in driveway and
roadway areas.  Its surface after compaction shall conform to the finished
surface of the roadway or sidewalk.  The material shall be compacted so that it
is dense and smooth enough to be safe for either pedestrians or vehicular
traffic as the case may be, at the maximum speed permitted by
law.	(2)	Maintenance of Temporary Resurfacing.  The permittee shall maintain
the surfacing so that it is safe for pedestrian or vehicular traffic until the
excavation is permanently resurfaced.	If it is impracticable to maintain the
surface of the backfill in a safe condition for pedestrian travel or vehicular
traffic, the permittee shall maintain barriers and lights around it until the
excavation has been resurfaced.	(3)	Permanent Resurfacing by City.  Unless
otherwise authorized herein or specifically authorized by the Board and
indicated by the permit, the improved surface of a street excavated or damaged
in connection with work being performed by authority of a permit issued under
the provisions of Section 62.02 will be permanently surfaced by the permittee. 
The permittee shall mark each such resurfacing in the manner prescribed by the
City Engineer and shall be responsible for the integrity of such resurfacing for
a period of five years from installation.	(4)	Permanent Resurfacing by
Permittee.  In cases where permanent resurfacing by permittee is required, the
permanent resurfacing may be placed immediately in lieu of placing and
maintaining temporary resurfacing.	The Board may require the area to be
permanently resurfaced immediately after completion of the backfilling where
such is practical and in the interest of the public safety and welfare.  Such
requirement shall be specified on the permit.	A utility issued a permit for the
drilling of leakage detection holes shall make immediate repair to said holes
with its own crews, at its own expense, and in the manner prescribed by the
Board.	When an excavation is made to install, remove, or abandon a pole or a
structure which forms a portion of the finished surface of a sidewalk or
concrete driveway, in lieu of the placement of temporary resurfacing, the person
or department of the City making the excavation may permanently restore the
surface of the sidewalk or driveway to the nearest scoring line of the square or
squares of which the pole does or did occupy or the structure forms or did form
a portion of the finished surface.  All such restoration shall be made by
removing and replacing the entire portion of the walk or driveway between the
nearest scoring lines.  The surface of an alley may be similarly restored when
the purpose of the excavation therein is the installation, relocation or removal
of a pole or pole anchor.  Construction of the walk, driveway or alley surface
shall be done in accordance with the current Standard Specifications for Public
Works Construction.	(5)	Permit Required for Resurfacing by Permittee.  Except
as provided herein, all permanent resurfacing done by permittee in connection
with a permit issued under the provisions of Section 62.02, shall be done under
a Class “A” permit secured in compliance with Section 62.105 of this Code. 
All permits obtained for street excavations and subsequent resurfacing
activities shall not be in lieu of but in addition to all permits required
pursuant to Sections 62.02, 62.04, 64.17 and the Street Damage Restoration Fee
Ordinance contained in the L.A.M.C.
