                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

EXCAVATIONS IN AND ADJACENT TO STREETS – LOCATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS. (§
62.03)

  EXCAVATIONS IN AND ADJACENT TO STREETS – LOCATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 150,478, Eff. 2/6/78.)	(a)	Restricted Area.  The area in
a street between the face of an existing or future curb and four feet back of
such curb face is reserved for use by the Department of Public Works.
Installation of facilities within, or other use of, this area will not be
permitted except as provided herein. The Board may issue permits as provided in
Section 62.02 for installations in or use of this area. Such permits are subject
to revocation by the Board at any time it becomes necessary to construct a
public work of any kind within the area.	EXCEPTION:  Restriction on the use of
such area will not apply to service connections, meters, pole installations, or
City-owned facilities used for governmental purposes. However, the installation
of poles may not be permitted, or poles being maintained in street areas may be
ordered removed, when territory adjacent to such street is provided with a
public alley or with an easement or private right of way specifically set aside
for the purpose of erecting poles therein.	Poles which are erected and
maintained in streets shall be set as close as practicable to the back of the
curb unless some other point is approved or designated by the Board.	(b)	Depth
of Substructure Installations.  (Amended by Ord. No. 150,478, Eff. 2/6/78.) 
All service pipes, main line pipes, conduits, ducts, tunnels, or other
structures, except manholes and vaults, shall be installed in a manner so that
all parts thereof located:  	(1)	in a roadway or alley are at a depth of at
least 24 inches below the established grade of the gutter of such roadway or
alley;  	(2)	in the roadway of a major or secondary highway are at a depth of
at least 30 inches below such grade; 	(3)	in an area back of an existing or
proposed curb in any public street, place or easement are at a depth of at least
16 inches below the surface.	Notwithstanding the above requirements, any such
new or relocated installation intended to carry unstable substances shall be
constructed at a depth of at least 42 inches below the established grade of the
gutter of such roadway or alley.	EXCEPTION:  If, by reason of the existence of
other installations or the proposed construction of any public work, a proposed
installation cannot be made below the minimum depths stated above, the Board
may, upon presentation of evidence of the necessity therefor or because of the
public benefit to accrue therefrom, grant a permit for an installation at a
lesser depth.	(c)	Tanks.	1.	Permits Required.  No person shall install any
storage tank in any public street without obtaining a permit from the Board to
do so in compliance with the provisions of Section 62.02.	The issuance of a
permit by the Board to excavate in a public street for the purpose of installing
an underground storage tank in no way relieves such permittee of the necessity
of obtaining an additional permit for such installation from the Fire Department
and complying with all applicable provisions of Article 7 of Chapter 5 of this
Code.	2.	Agreement to Remove.  Permission to maintain a tank in a public street
may be revoked by the Board at any time, and upon such revocation, the tank
shall be removed. As a condition precedent to the issuance of a permit to
install such a tank in a public street, the applicant shall record with the
County Recorder of the County of Los Angeles an agreement, approved as to form
by the City Attorney, holding the City harmless from any claims arising out of
the use of such tank, and setting forth the duties and responsibilities of the
owner of the adjacent property to remove the tank without expense to the City
when so ordered by the Board. Such agreement shall be a covenant running with
the land and binding upon the owner and his successors, heirs and
assigns.	3.	Abandonment of Tanks in Place.  When not contrary to the public
health, safety or welfare, the Board may allow the installation to be only
partially removed, and the balance to be abandoned in place, or may permit an
unused tank to be filled as provided in Article 7 of Chapter 5 of this Code, and
to be abandoned in place.	4.	Board May Remove or Abandon Tanks.  If within 20
days after service by the Board of a notice to remove or fill an underground
storage tank, the owner or his heirs, successors, or assigns as the case may be,
fails, refuses, or neglects to remove or fill such tank, as directed by the
Board, the Board may perform the necessary work and recover the cost of the work
from such person.	5.	Maximum Capacity of Tanks.  The maximum capacity of any
storage tank that may be installed in a public street is 4000
gallons.	(d)	Tunnels.	1.	Rights of Franchise Holders.  No tunnel structure
shall be constructed in any location or any manner which will prevent the lawful
use or occupation of a street by persons occupying it under the authority of
lawfully existing franchises.	2.	Inspection of Tunnels.  Every tunnel structure
constructed shall be subject to inspection at all times by the City Engineer and
the Board.	3.	Revocation of Permission to Maintain Tunnels.  Permission granted
for the construction of a tunnel structure in a public street may be revoked by
the Board at any time; and the City reserves the right to resume possession of
any portion of any street occupied by a tunnel structure at any time the Council
determines that such is necessary or advantageous to the use of the street by
the City.	4.	Installation of Machinery in Tunnels.  Machinery, boilers, or
engines shall not be placed in any tunnel structure constructed under the
surface of any street except that, subject to the approval of Council, conveyor
systems may be installed within such tunnel structures.	(e)	Location Maps and
Plans.  (Amended by Ord. No. 150,478, Eff. 2/6/78.)  The person owning, using,
controlling or having an interest in any subsurface installation, other than a
service connection, in any public street shall file with the City Engineer
within 60 days after the completing of such installation, a corrected set of
maps or atlas sheets showing the installation. Such map shall be drawn to a
scale of not more than 200 feet to the inch.	In the event such subsurface
installation is for the purpose of carrying an unstable substance, as-built
plans and profiles, showing the location, depth and size of the completed
installation, in a manner acceptable to the City Engineer, shall also be
submitted within said 60-day period.	Whenever such subsurface installation in a
public street or sidewalk is abandoned or the use thereof is discontinued, the
person owning, using, controlling or having an interest therein shall, within 60
days after such abandonment, file with the City Engineer a map showing in detail
the location of the abandoned installation.
