                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ESTABLISHMENT OF A STREET DAMAGE RESTORATION FEE. (§ 62.06)

  ESTABLISHMENT OF A STREET DAMAGE RESTORATION FEE.
	(Added by Ord. No. 171,922, Eff. 3/27/98.)	A.	Any person, corporation, agency,
or entity  including any Department, Bureau, or Agency of the City of Los
Angeles or any other governmental agency or authority  that is required to
obtain a permit to excavate or do other work in the public streets or alleys
under Los Angeles Municipal Code Sections 62.02, 62.04, 62.105, 64.17 or 65.04
shall pay a Street Damage Restoration Fee.  At the time of obtaining any permit
required under this Code, a Street Damage Restoration Fee in an amount
established by Resolution adopted pursuant to this Ordinance by the City Council
shall be paid to the City for deposit into the Street Damage Restoration Fee
Special Fund.  No portion of this ordinance shall be construed to require that
the Bureau of Street Maintenance will obtain permit authority to accomplish its
normal work program which includes maintenance, construction and reconstruction
activities within public rights-of-way and easements.	1.	(Added by Ord. No.
174,021, Eff. 7/23/01.)  Any entity identified in Paragraph A of this Section
may qualify for an exemption from the Street Damage Restoration Fee for street
cuts made up to twenty-three (23) months prior to scheduled resurfacing by 
doing the following:	(a)	Reviewing the City’s five-year Street Master Plan and
one-year Street Specific Plan  prepared by the Director of the Bureau of Street
Services (Bureau) prior to applying for an excavation permit,
and	(b)	Preparation and submission to the Bureau of a five-year master plan,
with a one- year specific plan, due by April 15 of each year, in a format
specified by the Bureau. Such plans must include the following:	(i)	The location
of the entity’s existing facilities in City streets, alleys, sidewalks and
other public places; and	(ii)	A description of all of the entity’s planned
major work for City streets, alleys, sidewalks and other public
places.	2.	(Added by Ord. No. 174,021, Eff. 7/23/01.)  Thereafter, in order to
continue to qualify for the Street Damage Restoration Fee exemption:	(a)	Each
entity  shall submit annually a revised and updated master and specific plan;
and	(b)	All cutting of streets and alleys must take place within twenty-three
(23) months prior to City-planned resurfacing or rehabilitation projects as
presented in the City’s Street Master Plan and Street Specific Plan.	B.	The
City Council shall establish, from time-to-time by resolution, the amount of the
Street Damage Restoration Fee.  The amount of this fee shall not exceed an
amount reasonably necessary to recover the estimated costs for all future
maintenance, repair, reconstruction or resurfacing that would be necessary to
fully mitigate the damage and degradation caused by the excavation to the
pavement located over and/or adjacent to the trench where the excavation
occurs.  The fee shall be highest for excavations in newly surfaced streets and
shall decrease as the age of the street surface being excavated increases. 
Further, the resolution may establish excavation moratoria or other paving
regulations for newly resurfaced streets.  In addition to the Street Damage
Restoration Fee or the Slurry Seal Damage Restoration Fee, the Bureau of
Engineering shall charge and collect a fee of $18 for the cost of calculating
and collecting the Street Damage Restoration Fee or the Slurry Seal Damage
Restoration Fee.  The calculation for the fee shall be revised as necessary by
the Board of Public Works in the same manner as provided in Section 12.37 I.1.
of this Code for establishing fees.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,237, Eff.
9/28/12.)	C.	The Street Damage Restoration Fee established herein  is in
addition to any other fee required by this Code and is in addition to any
special backfill, compaction and pavement replacement or other requirements
imposed by this Code or by the Department of Public Works as a condition of a
permit.	D.	Excavation in streets scheduled for repaving under the
“Departmental Annual Resurfacing Program” within one year of the proposed
excavation shall be exempt from the restoration fee.  The Public Works
Department will endeavor to notify entities of the streets scheduled under the
Program.  Entities making pavement cuts within the one year period must repave
the entire street block from curb face to curb face.  Exceptions may be made
when it can be sufficiently demonstrated to the Director, Bureau of Street
Services that the City’s 30 day notice of a scheduled street resurfacing
project was not mailed to the correct property owner of record at the time of
notification, and the adjacent property owner made significant efforts to
promptly notify the Bureau of Street Services of any planned street
excavations.  The adjacent property owner would be required to obtain the
applicable permits and repave the excavated area.  (Amended by Ord. No.
175,525, Eff. 11/16/03.)
