                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

EXCAVATIONS IN AND ADJACENT TO STREETS – PERMITS. (§ 62.02)

  EXCAVATIONS IN AND ADJACENT TO STREETS – PERMITS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 171,924, Eff. 3/27/98.)	(a)	Permit Required.  No person,
nor any department or officer of this City shall make an excavation in or under
the surface of any public street or public place for the installation,
inspection, repair, abandonment, or removal of any tank, pipe, conduit, duct,
tunnel, or footing, or for any other purpose, or make an excavation on private
property adjacent to a public street where lateral support to such street or
improvements or property within such street is imperiled by such excavation,
without first making and filing a written application therefor with the Bureau
of Engineering and receiving a permit from the Bureau of Engineering to do so. 
No portions of this ordinance shall be construed or is intended to exempt sewer
and storm drain connections; sewers and storms drains being constructed under
“B” permit provisions of this article; or departments or officers of this
City acting in a governmental capacity and performing work with their own forces
for the City.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,237, Eff. 9/28/12.)	EXCEPTION: A permit
will not be required for excavations which are for the purpose of the
installation or removal of poles or pole anchors when such pole and pole anchors
are located within sidewalk areas.  All work in connection with such
installations shall be performed in accordance with the provisions of Section
62.04.	1.	Council Permission for Tunnel Construction.  Permission from the
Council is required as a prerequisite to the issuance of any permit under
Subsection (a) of this section for the construction of a tunnel structure. 
Such tunnel installations may also be subject to the execution of a lease or
other agreement between the City and the permittee as determined by Council, and
the payment by the permittee of any annual charges set forth in such
agreement.	2.	Construction Tunnels.  A construction tunnel used in lieu of an
open trench for the purpose of installing pipe or conduit may be constructed
under the sole authorization of an excavation permit.	3.	Small Utility Cuts for
Leak Detection.  Excavation (Utility) permits for the purpose of drilling
leakage detection holes may be issued to a public utility regulated by the
Public Utilities Commission of the State of California.  (Amended by Ord. No.
182,237, Eff. 9/28/12.)	4.	Utility Maintenance and Service Connection
Excavations.  Excavation permits for the purpose of providing service
connections, replacing or repairing deteriorated fittings, or raising valve
covers, manhole covers, or vault lids to grade may be issued to a public utility
regulated by the Public Utilities Commission of the State of California. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 182,237, Eff. 9/28/12.)	5.	Chargebacks.  No portion of
this section shall be construed to contravene Section 11.08 of the L.A.M.C.
which prohibits City non-proprietary departments from charging other
non-proprietary departments; nor shall this section be construed to allow for
“no-fee” or exemptions from required permit authority for work being done
under contract for City departments and other governmental agencies.	No portion
of this ordinance shall be construed to require that the Bureau of Street
Maintenance will obtain permit authority to accomplish its normal work program
which includes maintenance, construction and reconstruction activities within
public rights-of-way and easements.	6.	Emergencies.  Nothing in this section
shall be construed to prevent any agency, entity or utility covered under the
provisions of this Ordinance or any person or department or officer of this City
who is maintaining an installation in a street by virtue of any law, ordinance
franchise, or permit from making such excavations as may be necessary when such
necessity arises from emergency conditions, provided that the person,
department, or officer making such excavation shall apply for a permit therefor
on the next regular business day following the day on which such excavation was
commenced and provided that the agency, entity, utility, department or officer
of this City provide supporting documentation confirming the nature and scope of
the work required and verifiable information related to the event(s), actions,
inactions or proximate causes of the required emergency
excavation.	7.	Imperilment of Lateral Support.  Imperilment of lateral support
to a street or improvements on property within such street by excavation on
private property shall be deemed to exist whenever such excavation does not
comply with the provisions of Section 91.3005 of this Code.	(b)	Contents of
Application.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,237, Eff. 9/28/12.)  The permit
applications shall contain all information required by the Bureau of
Engineering, including but not limited to the hours during which permitted work
will be performed, and safety measures that the permittee will
undertake.	(c)	Plans Required.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,237, Eff.
9/28/12.)	1.	General Requirements.  Each application for a permit shall be
accompanied by a plan, in triplicate, showing the location and dimensions of
each proposed excavation and such other details as the Bureau of Engineering may
require.  The applicant shall supply additional copies of the plan if requested
by the Bureau of Engineering for checking or inspection purposes.  The Bureau
of Engineering shall review the plan, and shall approve the plan if the Bureau
determines it to be satisfactory.  Prior to approval of a plan, the Bureau of
Engineering shall determine whether to require any permit conditions or special
restrictions, and such conditions or restrictions will be incorporated into the
permit.  If a plan shows a permanent installation to be made in the area of a
public street, a copy shall be placed in the electronic files of the City
Engineer as a public record, and an approved duplicate will be used for
inspection purposes.  Any excavation made or facility installed shall be
located in strict conformance with the location shown on the plan.	2.	Exception
to General Requirements.  The provisions of Subdivision 1. of this Subsection
shall not apply if the purpose for making the proposed excavation is to install
a service connection less than two inches in diameter, or to inspect or repair
an existing installation, although any such excavation shall be in strict
conformance with the location described in the application.	3.	Additional
Requirements for Tunnel Structures.  In addition to the requirements in
Subdivision 1. of this Subsection, plans for a tunnel structure shall show its
proposed location, the distance from all utility installations, details of the
proposed method of constructing and backfilling, and the purpose for which the
tunnel is to be constructed.  Plans for tunnel structures shall be based upon
alignments and elevations determined from actual surveys, and work on any tunnel
structure shall not proceed until such alignments and elevations have been
established.	(d)	Surveying.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,237, Eff. 9/28/12.)  In
reviewing an application for a permit pursuant to the provisions of this
Section, the Bureau of Engineering may require an applicant to conduct surveys
if the Bureau determines that surveys are needed to insure that the proposed
excavations or facilities to be installed would be located as described in the
permit application or shown on the accompanying plat.	(e)	Authority to Occupy
Street Area.  No person, nor any department or officer of this City, shall make
any installation in street areas without legal authority granted by franchise or
otherwise to occupy and use such areas for the purpose of such installations,
regardless of whether or not such person is required to secure a permit under
the provisions of this section.	(f)	Liability Insurance.  (Amended by Ord. No.
182,237, Eff. 9/28/12.)	1.	Insurance Required.  A permit to excavate issued
pursuant to the provisions of this Section shall not be issued until the
applicant has filed with the City Engineer a policy of protective liability
insurance naming the City as an insured or a co-insured with the permittee. 
The policy of insurance shall insure the City and its departments, officers and
employees, while acting with the scope of their duties, against all claims
arising from or in connection with the operations of the permittee, or any
contractor or subcontractor of the permittee, undertaken pursuant to the
provisions of the permit.	2.	Exception.  The provisions of this Subsection
shall not apply to the Federal Government, the State of California, any county,
city or county, municipal corporation, irrigation district, school district,
district established by law, any political subdivision of the Federal Government
or State of California, any public utility regulated by the Public Utilities
Commission of the State of California, or any contractor or subcontractor while
performing work under contract to any such entity pursuant to a permit issued
under the provisions of this Section.	3.	Amounts.  The policy of insurance
required by the provisions of this Subsection shall provide the following
minimum coverage:		Bodily Injury:		$250,000 for each person
					$500,000 for each occurrence
					$500,000 aggregate – products and completed operations		Property
Damage:	$100,000 for each occurrence
					$250,000 aggregate	A combined single limit policy with aggregate limits in
the amount of $1 million will be considered equivalent to the required minimum
limits.	The coverage amounts identified in this Subdivision are minimum amounts,
and the Bureau of Engineering has the authority to require coverage in larger
amounts where it determines that such coverage is required to adequately protect
the City.	4.	Deposit or Bond Where Lateral Support is Imperiled.  If a proposed
excavation on private property would imperil the lateral support of a public
street or improvements on a public street, in addition to providing the
insurance required by the provisions of this Subsection, a permittee must
provide to the Bureau of Engineering cash or a surety bond in an amount
determined by the Bureau to compensate the City for damage that may be caused to
City property by the excavation.  If a bond is provided, it must be executed to
the satisfaction of the Bureau of Engineering and approved as to form and
legality by the City Attorney.  The bond must be in effect for a minimum of two
years after completion of the permitted work, and if cash is provided instead of
a bond, the Bureau of Engineering shall keep the cash for a minimum of two years
after completion of the permitted work.  The Bureau of Engineering has the
authority to modify for good cause the provisions of this Subdivision pertaining
to the length of time it maintains custody of a cash deposit or the length of
the effectiveness of a surety bond.	(g)	Contents of Permits.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 182,237, Eff. 9/28/12.)  A permit issued by the Bureau of Engineering
pursuant to the provisions of this Section may impose conditions and
requirements for its use, including but not limited to specifying the type of
backfill material used, the backfilling method, special City inspections of the
permitted work, and the manner in which a surface cut is to be
made.	(h)	Compliance with Conditions of Permits Required.  (Amended by Ord. No.
182,237, Eff. 9/28/12.)  All conditions imposed upon a permit by the Bureau of
Engineering must be complied with, and no person shall fail, neglect or refuse
to comply with any term or condition contained in any permit issued pursuant to
the provisions of this Section.	(i)	Duration of Permit.  (Amended by Ord. No.
182,237, Eff. 9/28/12.)  Every permit issued pursuant to the provisions of this
Section shall expire unless the permitted excavation has begun within six months
from the date of issuance of the permit, and the Bureau shall not grant any
extensions of time in which to begin the work.  Once permitted excavation work
has begun, the work must be diligently prosecuted to completion.  If excavation
work has not begun within six months from the date of issuance of a permit
issued pursuant to the provisions of this Subsection, the permit is cancelled
and the Bureau of Engineering shall impose and collect a fee pursuant to the
provisions of Section 62.05(a)(1).	(j)	(Repealed by Ord. No. 182,237, Eff.
9/28/12.)	(k)	(Repealed by Ord. No. 182,237, Eff. 9/28/12.)	(l)	(Repealed by
Ord. No. 182,237, Eff. 9/28/12.)	(m)	(Repealed by Ord. No. 182,237, Eff.
9/28/12.)	(n)	(Repealed by Ord. No. 182,237, Eff. 9/28/12.)
