                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

FINE FOR NON-COMPLIANCE. (§ 62.09)

  FINE FOR NON-COMPLIANCE.
	(Added by Ord. No. 175,014, Eff. 1/29/03; Renumbered from Sec. 62.03.3 by Ord.
No. 182,237, Eff. 9/28/12.)	I.	Any person that violates the City’s Above
Ground Specifications and Procedures shall be subject to the monetary fines
established by this Section.	II.	Failure to Comply: An AGF owner shall be
subject to a fine of $500.00 per day, every calendar day for each AGF
installation found to be in non-compliance with the AGF Specifications and
Procedures. The maximum cumulative fine for noncompliance shall be $10,000 per
AGF.	The AGF owner shall be provided written notice that contains the location
of the AGF installation, a description of the noncompliance, and a demand to
comply within fourteen (14) calendar days of the written notice.	Failure by the
AGF owner to take corrective action or respond within fourteen (14) calendar
days shall result in the imposition of the fine for non-compliance. The
following specific requirements of the AGF Specifications and Procedures shall
be subject to the fine:	A.	Failure to obtain a valid Utility Permit prior to the
installation of an AGF. (Paragraph III, A. &#038; B.)	B.	Failure to install an
AGF in conformance with the AGF Specifications and Procedures. (Paragraph III,
C.)	C.	Failure to properly maintain landscaping designed to screen the AGF
installation.  (Paragraph V, D.)	D.	Failure to remove graffiti and posters from
AGF cabinets. (Paragraph V, E.)	E.	Failure to properly maintain AGF cabinet
paint or surface treatment.  (Paragraph V, E.)	F.	Failure to remove obsolete or
unused AGF installations.  (Paragraph VIII, H.)	G.	Failure to modify, retrofit,
or relocate AGF installations that violate pedestrian passage requirements. 
(Paragraph X, B.)	III.	Excessive Non-Compliance:  In cases where a specific AGF
is found to be non-compliant more than three (3) times, the AGF will be deemed
in excessive non-compliance. This determination shall result in the placement of
a hold on all current and future Utility, Revocable, and Excavation Permits
issued to the AGF owner until corrective action is taken and a revised
mitigation plan is approved by the Board of Public Works.
