                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

RAILROADS – PROCEDURE FOR REPLACING RAILS. (§ 62.126)

  RAILROADS – PROCEDURE FOR REPLACING RAILS.
	(Based on Sec. 9, Ord. No. 29,121, Eff. 3/18/14.)	Whenever any person having
steam, electric, interurban or street railroad tracks upon or across any street
that has already been paved with asphalt, vitrified brick, stone blocks, or
other permanent pavement, shall desire to replace the rails of such tracks, or
ties, or both, with new rails or ties, or both, such person shall, before
commencing such work, give written notice to the Board of his intention so to
do. Thereupon the Board shall cause an inspection to be made of the portion of
the street where it is so proposed to do such work or replacement; and if upon
such inspection, the Board shall find that the pavement thereof or the tracks or
the roadbed thereof, where it is proposed to do such work, has not been
constructed in conformity with the provisions of Sections 62.119 to 62.128
inclusive, the Board shall, by resolution, order said person to reconstruct such
tracks and roadbed and any part thereof, and to repave the said portion of such
street in the same manner as provided in Sections 62.119 to 62.128 inclusive.
The Board shall, in such resolution, fix the time within which the work therein
described shall be done and shall cause a copy of such resolution to be served
upon such person. Such service shall be made, proved and a record thereof kept,
in the same manner provided for the service of the resolution mentioned in
Section 62.125. The time specified in the order may be extended by the Board,
for good cause, upon written application made by such person prior to the
expiration of such time. If the Board shall find, upon such inspection, that the
roadbed where it is proposed to lay such new rails or ties has been ballasted
with broken stone or screened gravel, nothing herein contained shall be
construed to prevent the Board at its discretion, from not requiring such
roadbed to be reconstructed. If the distance for which such person shall desire
to replace such rails, or ties, or both, shall be less than one hundred and
fifty (150) feet, the Board may, at its discretion, grant a special permit to
use such paving material in the work as the Board may prescribe; and if such
permit is granted, all work or paving and repairing thereunder shall be done
under the instruction and to the satisfaction of the Board.	Any person served
with a copy of said resolution, as herein provided, is hereby required to
prosecute the work specified therein diligently to completion within the time so
fixed and stated therein, or within such time as may be extended by the Board.
