                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

CLASS “B” PERMITS – PLANS – BONDS – INSURANCE. (§ 62.111)

  CLASS “B” PERMITS – PLANS – BONDS – INSURANCE.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 113,689, Eff. 7/4/59.)	(a)	Plans – When Required.  Upon
the issuance of a Class “B” permit, special plans shall be prepared therefor
and thereafter approved by the City Engineer, if in the opinion of the City
Engineer such plans are necessary.	(b)	Class “B” Permits – Bond
Required.	(1)	(Amended by Ord. No. 135,199, Eff. 9/15/67.)  No class “B”
permit shall be issued unless the applicant shall first file with the City
Engineer a good and sufficient bond, approved by the Board or its duly
authorized representative. The bond shall be in an amount equal to the cost of
the proposed work as estimated by the City Engineer. The bond shall contain a
condition requiring the faithful performance and completion of the work for
which the permit is issued, in accordance with the permit and the plans and
specifications prepared therefor, as well as a condition requiring the
performance of any work required to be performed pursuant to the provisions of
Section 61.02 of this Code. The bond also shall require the payment of all costs
referred to in Section 62.110 which may be incurred or expanded by the City in
causing such required work to be done. Said bond shall also guarantee payment to
the City of all engineering inspection and administrative costs and fees
incurred by the city as a result of issuance of the Class “B” permit. The
bond shall be either a cash bond or a bond executed by a company authorized to
act as surety in this State.	EXCEPTION:  No such bond shall be required for the
issuance of a Class “B” permit for design or checking only, or where the
requirement has been waived pursuant to the authority of Section
62.105(b)	(2)	Where any sewage works which include the installation of machinery
or equipment to be operated by the City, are to be constructed, no Class “B”
permit shall be issued therefor unless the applicant, in addition to the above
mentioned bond, shall first file with the City Engineer a good and sufficient
performance bond, approved by the Board, or its duly authorized representative.
The bond shall be in an amount equal to one-half of the cost of the purchase and
installation of such machinery or equipment, as estimated by the City Engineer,
and shall be conditioned upon the repair, adjustment or replacement of any
defective equipment or parts thereof, the correction of any faulty installation,
upon the payment of all necessary costs and expenses which may be incurred or
expended by the City, other than ordinary maintenance and operation expenses, to
obtain satisfactory performance thereof during a period of one year from the
date of acceptance of such sewage works by the Board. The bond shall be either a
cash bond or a bond executed by a company authorized to act as surety in this
State. (Amended by Ord. No. 112,719, Eff. 2/28/59.)	(c)	Cash Bond –
Reimbursement to Be Made Therefrom.	(1)	Whenever the applicant elects to post a
cash bond, the Board is hereby empowered, in the event of any default on the
part of the permittee in the performance of any work or improvement for which
the permit was granted or in the payment of any charges due the City arising out
of the issuance of such permit, to deduct therefrom on behalf of the City an
amount sufficient to reimburse and to indemnify the City for any and all damages
sustained by the City by reason of faulty or defective work, or by reason of
carelessness or negligence of the permittee, or by reason of any failure on the
part of the permittee faithfully and properly to perform and complete the work
in accordance with the plans and specifications. In the event of any such
default on the part of the permittee, the Board may, at its option, cause all
the required work to be done and may expend therefor the whole amount of such
cash bond or any part thereof.  (Amended by Ord. No. 92,478, Eff.
12/21/47).	(2)	Whenever the applicant elects to post a cash bond under (b)(2)
above, the Board is hereby empowered in the event that adjustment or replacement
of any defective equipment or parts from the date of completion and acceptance
by the Board of said work, and for a period of one year thereafter, to deduct
from the cash bond deposited the amount or amounts of money necessary to correct
any faulty installation, replacement of defective equipment or parts, and
payment or payments for all necessary costs and expenses which may be incurred
by the City other than ordinary maintenance and operation expense, to obtain
satisfactory performance thereof during said period of one year from the date of
completion and acceptance of such sewage works by the Board.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 92,478, Eff. 12/21/47).	(d)	Surety Bond – Collection and
Enforcement.	(1)	(Amended by Ord. No. 135,199, Eff. 9/15/67.)  Whenever a
surety bond has been filed in compliance with this section, the Board is hereby
empowered, in the event of any default on the part of the principal, to enforce
collection, under such bond of all sums due and unpaid to the City as charges
arising out of the issuance of the permit, and for any and all damages sustained
by the City by reason of faulty or defective work, or by reason of the
carelessness and negligence of the permittee in the performance of the work, or
by reason of any failure on the part of the permittee to faithfully and properly
to perform, in accordance with the permit and the plans and specifications, the
work or improvement for which the permit was issued, or by reason of any failure
on the part of the permittee to faithfully and properly perform any work
required to be performed pursuant to the provisions of Section 61.02. In the
event of any such default on the part of the permittee, the Board may, at its
option, cause all the required work to be done and surety upon the bond shall be
firmly bound for the payment of all necessary costs thereof.	(2)	Whenever a
surety bond has been filed in the compliance with (b)(2) of this section, the
Board is hereby empowered in the event that adjustment or replacement of any
defective equipment or parts from the date of completion and acceptance by the
Board of said work, and for a period of one year thereafter, to enforce
collection under such bond, of all sums necessary to correct any faulty
installations, replacement of defective equipment or parts, and payment or
payments for all necessary costs and expenses which may be incurred by the City,
other than ordinary maintenance and operation expense, to obtain satisfactory
performance thereof during said period of one year from the date of completion
and acceptance of such sewage works by the Board.  (Amended by Ord. No. 92,478,
Eff. 12/21/47.)	(e)	Termination of Bond.	(1)	The term of each bond filed or
posted pursuant to this section, shall begin upon the date of the filing or
posting thereof and shall end upon the date of the completion, to the
satisfaction of the City Engineer, of all the improvements covered by the
permit. The fact of such completion shall be evidenced by a statement thereof
signed by the City Engineer, a copy of which shall be furnished to any surety
upon request. In any case where a cash bond has been posted there shall be
returned, on demand, to the permittee or to his successors or assigns, upon or
after the date of the issuance of said certificate, the amount of such cash bond
less the amount, if any, expended by the Board to complete the work or otherwise
taken or deducted by the Board to reimburse or to indemnify the City for any
loss or damage incurred prior to the date of such acceptance as a result of any
default covered by the cash bond.  (Amended by Ord. No. 92,478, Eff.
12/21/47.)	(2)	The term of each bond filed or posted pursuant to (b)(2) of this
section shall begin upon the date of filing and posting thereof and shall end
one year from the date of the completion and acceptance of such sewage work by
the Board. Where a cash bond has been posted, there shall be returned, on
demand, to the permittee or to his successors or assigns, upon or after the
lapse of one year from the date of the completion and acceptance by the Board of
the sewage works, the amount of such cash bond less the amount, if any, expended
by the Board for the adjustment or replacement of any defective equipment or
parts, or to correct any faulty installations, or payments for all necessary
costs and expenses which may be incurred by the City, other than ordinary
maintenance and operation expense, to obtain satisfactory performance thereof
during said period of one year from the date of completion and acceptance of
such sewage works by the Board.  (Amended by Ord. No. 92,478, Eff.
12/21/47.)	(f)	Duplication of Security – Not Required.  If the applicant has
already on file with the City Engineer, and in full force and effect, a surety
bond or a deposit posted pursuant to the provisions of the Subdivision Map
Ordinance (Ordinance No. 79,310, approved March 1,1938) assuring the completion
of the work for which the permit is requested, and adequate in amount to meet
the requirements of this section, no other bond shall be required to be posted
by him in order to comply with this section.	(g)	Class “B” Permits –
Issuance Required:  (Amended by Ord. No. 153,469, Eff. 6/1/80.)  A Class
“B” permit for any work for which such permit is required, shall not be
issued until the applicant has filed with the City Engineer a protective
liability policy of insurance in which the City has been named as insured or as
co-insured with the permittee. The policy of insurance shall insure the City and
its officers and employees, while acting within the scope of their duties,
against all claims arising out of, or in connection with, the operations of the
permittee or any contractor or subcontractor of the permittee pursuant to the
permit. The policy of insurance shall provide coverage as follows:	Bodily
Injury		$250,000 each person
$500,000 each occurrence
$500,000 aggregate products and completed operations	Property Damage 	$100,000
each occurrence
$250,000 aggregate	A combined single limit policy with aggregate limits in the
amount of $1 million will be considered equivalent to the required minimum
limits.
