                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER IMPROVEMENTS – PERMITS REQUIRED. (§ 62.105)

  STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER IMPROVEMENTS – PERMITS REQUIRED.	(a)	No person
shall lay, construct, reconstruct or repair in any street or in, over or through
any property or right of way owned by or under the control of the City, any
curb, sidewalk, gutter, driveway, approach, roadway surface, pavement, sanitary
sewer, sewage works, storm drain, culvert, stairway, retaining wall or similar
structure, building or improvement, or perform any grading or filling, or
subject any sewer or storm drain to excessive live or dead loading without first
obtaining written permit therefor from the Board and without first obtaining
approval of plans and specifications and the lines and grades therefor from the
City Engineer. (Amended by Ord. No. 115,316, Eff. 2/15/60.)	(b)	Any person who
desires to make any such improvement upon any private property not dedicated to
a public use, may, in order to obtain the City Engineer’s approval of plans
and specifications therefor, city inspection and supervision of the work and to
assure that the improvement when completed will be to the satisfaction of the
City Engineer and that his acceptance thereof will be available if the
improvement be later submitted for dedication to public use, apply for and
obtain a permit therefor which shall, after such voluntary application, be
treated in all respects as a permit required by law, except that the bond for
the faithful performance of the work, provided for in Section 62.111, may be
waived. All fees, and all deposits, provided for in the following sections must
be demanded and received as in the case of permits required by law, and the City
Engineer may impose such other conditions as may, in his discretion, be required
to assure that the work may be inspected and supervised without cost or expense
to the City, that the work will not cause loss or damage to the City or to the
public, and that the improvements when completed, will be acceptable for public
use if and when they shall be dedicated to or devoted to such use. (Amended by
Ord. No. 83,881, Eff. 2/4/41.)	The inspection, supervision and other services
rendered or undertaken by the City shall be consideration for any condition
imposed upon the applicant and shall be withheld if he refuse any such
condition. Whenever any applicant hereunder shall post with the City Engineer a
bond conditioned in all respects as provided in Section 62.111, and adequate in
amount to comply therewith, such bond shall for all purposes be deemed a bond
posted pursuant to that section. (Amended by Ord. No. 83,881, Eff.
2/4/41.)	Nothing in this subsection shall be deemed to bind the City to accept
such improvements for public use, however, if for any reason said improvements
are not in a condition satisfactory to the City Engineer at the time they are
offered for acceptance for public use. (Amended by Ord. No. 83,881, Eff.
2/4/41.)
