                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

CURB AND SIDEWALK REPAIRS. (§ 62.104)

  CURB AND SIDEWALK REPAIRS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 146,040, Eff. 7/13/74.)	When a sidewalk, driveway or curb
constructed on any street shall be out of repair or in need of reconstruction,
or in a condition to endanger persons or property passing thereon, or in a
condition to interfere with the public convenience in the use thereof, the Board
may require that the owners or occupants of lots or portions of lots fronting on
said sidewalk, or curb and on the same side of the street where such sidewalk,
driveway or curb is located to repair or reconstruct the sidewalk, driveway or
curb, or both. The Board may give written notice thereof to the owners of the
adjoining premises, or to their agents or to the occupants of such premises, or
by leaving a copy of such notice on such premises.	(a)	Notice – Content of. 
Said notice shall contain a description of the work required to be done and
shall designate the materials to be used and shall specify the manner in which
said work shall be done.	(b)	Time Required for Repairs.  Any owner, agent or
occupant of any such premises, within two weeks after notice given as provided
herein, shall commence the work of repair or reconstruction, or both, and shall
do said work in the manner and with the materials specified in said notice. No
owners, agent or occupant of any such premises where notice is given as provided
herein shall fail, refuse, or neglect to commence the work required in said
notice within the time permitted herein, nor shall any such person after having
begun such work fail, refuse, or neglect to proceed diligently with the work to
completion in the manner and with the materials specified in said
notice.	(c)	Failure to Repair.  In the event a person neglects, fails, or
refuses within two weeks after notification, to begin the work of repair or
reconstruction of the property designated in the notice, or fails to prosecute
the work diligently to completion, the Board shall have the power to perform the
work described in the notice.  (Amended by Ord. No. 175,596, Eff.
12/7/03.)	(d)	Preventive Measures.  The Board is authorized to take preventive
action such as root pruning or tree removal to prevent damage to curbs,
driveways or sidewalks.	(e)	Determination of Responsibility for Damage. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 175,596, Eff. 12/7/03.)  Whenever the Board determines
that a curb, driveway or sidewalk is damaged as the result of negligence or
violation of this Code and the Board determines the responsible party, all costs
incurred pursuant to this section shall be a personal obligation of the
responsible party, recoverable by the City in an action before any court of
competent jurisdiction.  These costs shall include an amount equal to 40
percent of the cost to perform the actual work, but not less than the sum of
$100.00, to cover the City’s costs for administering any contract and
supervising the work required.  In addition to this personal obligation and all
other remedies provided by law, if the Board determines that a curb, driveway or
sidewalk is damaged to such an extent as to create a menace to the public
health, welfare and safety, and to constitute a public nuisance, the City may
collect any judgment, fee, cost, or charge, including any permit fees, fines,
late charges, or interest, incurred in relation to the provisions of this
section as provided in Los Angeles Administrative Code Sections 7.35.1 through
7.35.8.	EXCEPTION:  Preventive measures and repairs or reconstruction to curbs,
driveways or sidewalks required as the result of tree root growth shall be
repaired by the Board at no cost to the adjoining property owner.
