                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

CLASS “A” PERMIT FEES. (§ 62.109)

  CLASS “A” PERMIT FEES.
	(Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 182,237, Eff. 9/28/12.)	(a)	Permit
Application Fee.  In addition to the fees identified in Subsections (b) and (c)
of this Section, the Bureau of Engineering shall charge and collect a fee of
$265 for each application for issuance of a Class “A” permit.	(b)	Inspection
Fees.  In addition to the fees imposed in Subsections (a) and (c) of this
Section, the Bureau of Engineering shall charge and collect from an applicant
for issuance of a Class “A” permit all of the following fees, where
applicable:	1.	Curb.  A fee of $3.70 per linear foot for all types of curbs,
including but not limited to depressed curbs across driveways, but not including
the gutter portion of an integral curb and gutter.	2.	Concrete Paving, Gutter,
Sidewalk, Driveway.  A fee of $0.85 per square foot for all types of concrete
paving, gutters, sidewalks, access ramps and driveways.	3.	Asphalt
Resurfacing.  A fee of $3.30 per square foot for all types of asphalt
surfacing, including but not limited to roadways, alleys and driveways.	4.	Area
Drain.  A fee of $15.95 for each area drain.	5.	Tree Well.  A fee of $15.95
for each tree well.	6.	Pipe.  A fee of $5.50 for each pipe.	(c)	Additional
Authorized Charges.  In addition to the fees imposed in Subsection (b) of this
Section, where the Bureau of Engineering determines that a project requires the
Bureau of Engineering to obtain more inspections than are funded by the fee
imposed, the Bureau shall charge and collect Special Inspection Charges pursuant
to the provisions of Section 62.05(a)(1)(cc).  The provisions of Section 61.14
and 61.15 shall also apply to fees imposed pursuant to the provisions of
Subsection (a) of this Section.	(d)	Testing Fees.  In addition to the fees
imposed in Subsections (a) and (b) of this Section, the Bureau of Engineering
shall charge and collect from an applicant for issuance of a Class “A”
permit all of the following fees, where applicable:	1.	Fills.  A fee of $300
for each maximum density test conducted, one test required for each location; a
fee of $115 for each relative compaction test conducted, one test required for
each three foot layer of fill 50 feet long.	2.	Concrete.  A fee of $100 for
each concrete cylinder with a minimum of two cylinders required for each 28 day
test.  The Bureau of Engineering may require testing of additional cylinders at
a fee of $100 each when the Bureau of Engineering or the Bureau of Contract
Administration determines that additional testing is necessary.	(e)	Application
of Fee Provisions.	1.	Except for applications subject to the provisions of
Subdivision 2. of this Subsection, the provisions of this Section apply to all
Class “A” permit applications, including but not limited to applications to
engage in permitted work within a public easement.	2.	The provisions of this
Section shall not apply to an application for issuance of a Class “A” permit
to repair damage caused by forces beyond the property owner’s control,
including but not limited to damage caused by a subsidence, pavement failure,
earthquake, or trees located in a public right-of-way, although the applicable
fees and charges shall be imposed for all other work authorized by the same
permit which is not required to be performed because of such conditions.  For
this Subdivision to apply, an applicant must state on the application what work
is exempt from the fees imposed by this Section, and the cause of the underlying
damage.
