                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

RAILROADS – CHANGE OF RAILS. (§ 62.123)

  RAILROADS – CHANGE OF RAILS.	No person owning or operating any steam,
electric, interurban, or street railroad, shall use any rails, other than
grooved girder rails, not less than seven (7) inches in height of such pattern
and dimensions as shall be approved by the Board of Transportation Commissioners
in replacing the rails of any tracks that shall be taken up and replaced, with
new or other rails in streets now paved with asphalt, vitrified brick, stone
blocks or other permanent pavement. Nothing herein contained shall be construed
to require the use of such grooved girder rails on curves where guard rails are
used, or on track crossings, or on those portions of streets, where the gradient
exceeds ten (10) per centum, or on any street intersection at the lower
termination of gradients exceeding ten (10) per centum, or on streets not paved
with asphalt, vitrified brick, stone blocks or other permanent pavement, or upon
steel bridges. Nothing herein contained shall be construed so as to prevent the
use of any rails laid in such paved streets at the time Ordinance No. 29,121,
approved February 3, 1914, became effective, until such rails shall be replaced
or shall be required to be replaced by new or other rails as provided by
Sections 62.119 to 62.128 inclusive. (Amended by Ord. No. 151,833, Eff. 2/10/79,
Oper. 2/25/79.)	Rails laid and in use in such paved streets at the time
Ordinance No. 29,121, approved February 3, 1914, became effective, may be
replaced by rails of a type other than grooved girder rails, herein required
with the written consent of the Board of Transportation Commissioners, in any
case, where such replacement shall not exceed one hundred fifty (150) feet of
single track. The Board of Transportation Commissioners is hereby authorized and
directed upon application made to said Board of Transportation Commissioners to
examine into and consider the facts and circumstances in each particular
instance. Whenever, in the opinion of the Board of Transportation Commissioners,
based upon traffic conditions on any street, it is unreasonable, under existing
conditions to require the use of such grooved girder rails, or to require the
construction work of any railroad to be done in the manner provided in Sections
62.119 to 62.121 inclusive, or whenever, in the opinion of the Board of
Transportation Commissioners, based upon market conditions, it is impossible or
impracticable to obtain such grooved girder rails, the Board of Transportation
Commissioners is hereby authorized and empowered to permit, by order or
resolution, the use upon certain designated streets, of rails other than grooved
girder rails, of such pattern and dimensions as the Board of Transportation
Commissioners may prescribe, and authorize the construction of the roadbed, and
the laying of ties, to be done in such manner as the Board of Transportation
Commissioners may determine and specify; and the Board of Public Works is hereby
authorized and empowered in such instances, by order or resolution, to permit
the paving adjacent to the tracks and other construction work to be done in such
manner as the Board of Public Works may determine and specify. (Amended by Ord.
No. 151,833, Eff. 2/10/79, Oper. 2/25/79.)
