                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

STREET BANNERS. (§ 62.132)

  STREET BANNERS.
	(Added by Ord. No. 86,614, Eff. 7/31/42.)	(a)	Purpose.  The purpose of this
ordinance is to provide a limited availability for charitable and non-profit
entities to advertise their event or a series of events utilizing the City of
Los Angeles’ street light poles according to the criteria set forth below. 
It is not the intent of the City to provide a general public forum or to allow
non-City entities or persons to post messages on the City’s light poles by the
use of street banners.  The City shall not discriminate based on the content of
the requested event banner, nor based on the nature of the event, provided that
the requested banner meets all requirements of this ordinance.  In no way shall
this ordinance be construed to limit the City’s inherent right to hang City
sponsored street banners from municipal street light poles.  (Added by Ord. No.
176,630, Eff. 6/14/05.)	(b)	Definitions.  (Former Subsec. (a) Redesignated as
Subsec. (b) by Ord. No. 176,630, Eff. 6/14/05.)	1.	“Street Banner.”  Any
pennant, streamer, flag, sign, picture, figure or other object, regardless of
the material of which it is made, which is suspended or otherwise displayed over
any public street, way or place, designed for decoration or advertisement, or to
attract the attention of passersby; except, however, official warning devices,
public service facilities, street lights and the like. The term shall not
include signs the installation and maintenance of which is regulated by Article
1, Chapter 9 of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 89,977, Eff.
1/28/46.)	2.	“Each Installation.”  Each wire or rope from which one or more
street banner are suspended shall be deemed to be one “installation”. 
Multiple banners suspended from a single pole shall also be deemed one
installation, provided that the multiple banners comply with all other laws,
rules and regulations covering street banners.  (Amended by Ord. No. 172,899,
Eff. 12/23/99.)	3.	“Event.”  Shall be defined as something that takes place
within the City of Los Angeles at a venue that is open for attendance by the
City’s citizens regardless of their age, gender, race, religion or physical
disability.  A telethon or phone-a-thon shall be considered an “event”
under this definition if it meets all other requirements of this ordinance. 
(Added by Ord. No. 176,630, Eff. 6/14/05.)	4.	“Community Event.”  Shall be
defined as an event, or a series of events that promotes civic pride in a local
community within the City of Los Angeles or the City of Los Angeles as a whole,
and that is not a purely commercial enterprise and where the proceeds, if any,
will directly benefit either a charitable or non-profit organization. 
(Renumbered and Amended by Ord. No. 176,630, Eff. 6/14/05.)	5.	“Charitable
Event.”  Shall be defined as an event, or a series of events where the
proceeds, if any, will directly benefit a charitable organization that maintains
its charitable status under Internal Revenue Code § 501(c)(3).  (Renumbered
and Amended by Ord. No. 176,630, Eff. 6/14/05.)	6.	“Non-Profit Event.” 
Shall be defined as an event, or series of events that is sponsored by an
organization that is incorporated or otherwise organized as a non-profit
organization under the laws of the State of California or the Internal Revenue
Code and where the proceeds, if any, will directly benefit either a charitable
or non-profit organization.  (Renumbered and Amended by Ord. No. 176,630, Eff.
6/14/05.)	7.	“City of Los Angeles Event.”  Shall be defined as an event, or
series of events that is organized and administered by the City of Los Angeles
or by any of its operating departments, boards, commissions or bureaus and that
has been approved by the City Council.  (Renumbered and Amended by Ord. No.
176,630, Eff. 6/14/05.)	8.	“Citywide Event.”  Shall be defined as an event
for which organizers will install in excess of 200 banners.  (Renumbered and
Amended by Ord. No. 176,630, Eff. 6/14/05.)	9.	“Non-Event Banner.”  Shall
be defined as a banner that identifies or denotes on the banner an area,
community, district or other recognized geographic portion of the City of Los
Angeles, such as a Business Improvement District, or contains a public service
announcement from the City and meets all other requirements of this ordinance. 
(Renumbered and Amended by Ord. No. 176,630, Eff. 6/14/05.)	(c)	– General
Prohibition.  No street banners shall be installed in the public right of way
except for street banners expressly authorized by subsection (d) below. 
(Former Subsec. (b) Redesignated as Subsec. (c) and Amended by Ord. No. 176,630,
Eff. 6/14/05.)	(d)	Street Banners – Exemptions from General Prohibition.
(Former Subsec. (c) Redesignated as Subsec. (d) and Amended by Ord. No. 176,630,
Eff. 6/14/05.)	(1)	The City of Los Angeles may hang, or authorize a third party
to hang on its behalf, street banners that announce a City of Los Angeles
event.  The City Council may also authorize the hanging of City of Los Angeles
sponsored non-event street banners, including street banners requested by any of
the City’s operating departments, boards, commissions, bureaus or requested by
other governmental entities, that do not announce a specific event but that
contain public service announcements or that identify or denote on the banner an
area, community, district or other recognized geographic portion of the City of
Los Angeles, such as a Business Improvement District.  All banners requested by
other governmental entities, other than the City of Los Angeles, shall be
subject to the applicable fees as authorized in this code.	(2)	The City of Los
Angeles may issue a permit to hang event street banners that announce either a
Community event, a Charitable event or a Non-Profit event or non-event street
banners requested by a charitable or nonprofit entity that identify or denote on
the banner an area, community, district or other recognized geographic portion
of the City of Los Angeles, such as a Business Improvement District.	(e)	Street
Banners – Content.  (Added by Ord. No. 176,630, Eff. 6/14/05.)	(1)	The text
on all event street banners that announce Community, Charitable or Non-Profit
events shall be limited to the following content: the name of the event; the
name of the charitable or non-profit organization who is the permit applicant,
and, if the name of the organization is in a language other than English, the
English translation of the name; the date of the event; the time of the event;
the location of the event and, if desired by the applicant, either a telephone
number or web address for persons to obtain additional information concerning
the event. The name of any event shall be no more than 8 words and contain no
more than 50 letters.	(2)	The content of all community identity non-event street
banners shall be limited to the name of the area, community, district or other
recognized geographic portion of the City of Los Angeles such as a Business
Improvement District and may contain an introductory word or words, such as
“Welcome to” or “Entering.” City of Los Angeles non-event banners may
contain public service information or messages.	(f)	Permit Required.  No person
shall install or maintain any street banner without a permit therefor from the
Board of Public Works.  A separate permit shall be required for each banner
design and location, but all street banners suspended in one city block, or in a
number of contiguous city blocks, by one permittee, shall be deemed to be at the
same location.  Permits shall not be issued for light poles on streets where
the adjoining land use is primarily single-family residential.  (Former Subsec.
(d) Redesignated as Subsec. (f) by Ord. No. 176,630, Eff.
6/14/05.)	(g)	Application and Fee.  Applications for permits shall be made
jointly by the primary event sponsor and the commercial entity installing the
banners upon forms prescribed by the Board.  The application must include a
clear replica of the proposed banner or banners, including any text on said
banners, for each proposed installation, and said application shall also include
all other information required by the Board for the protection of public safety,
welfare and property.  One application may include any number of locations,
provided that the applicant must submit replicas of all different banners
proposed to be installed under the single application.  (Former Subsec. (f)
Redesignated as Subsec. (g) and Amended by Ord. No. 176,630, Eff.
6/14/05.)	(h)	Insurance Policy to be Posted.  (Former Subsec. (g) Redesignated
as Subsec. (h) by Ord. No. 176,630, Eff. 6/14/05.)  No permit shall be issued
hereunder unless the commercial entity installing the street banners has on file
with the Board a satisfactory policy of insurance so conditioned as to insure
the City, its officers and employees against any loss, cost, expense, injury,
damage or liability incurred by reason of any personal injury or property damage
sustained by any person, caused by or resulting from or which may be claimed to
have been caused by or to have resulted from, the installation or maintenance of
any street banner or appurtenance installed under the permit, or from any
failure to install or maintain any such street banner or appurtenance in the
manner required by this ordinance or by rule, regulation or order of the Board,
or from any dangerous or defective condition or nuisance created thereby or
resulting therefrom.  Furthermore, by the policy, the City, its officers and
employees as named assures, must be insured against any property damage or
personal injury resulting from any such cause.	In addition, the policy shall be
so conditioned as to assure the ability of the applicant to respond in damages,
in any action brought for personal injury or property damage sustained by any
person, based upon any ground mentioned above.	The limit of liability upon any
policy posted or maintained hereunder shall not be less than $500,000.	(i)	Bond
or Cash Deposit.  (Former Subsec. (h) Redesignated as Subsec. (i) by Ord. No.
176,630, Eff. 6/14/05.)  No permit shall be issued hereunder unless in addition
to the insurance policy herein above required, the applicant commercial entity
installing street banners posts or has on file with the Board a surety bond or
cash deposit so conditioned as to assure that the City shall be reimbursed for
any expense that may be incurred by the Board in removing any street banner or
appurtenance installed pursuant to the permit, in repairing damage to street
lighting equipment resulting from the banner installation, or in otherwise
enforcing any order, rule or relation of the Board.  Upon the face of each
application received, the Board shall indicate the amount of indemnity required
upon each permit requested, which shall be at the reasonable discretion of the
Board.  The amount of the bond or cash deposit shall not be less than the
amount so indicated.  The unused portion of any cash, or other deposit shall be
returned to the applicant.	The applicant commercial entity installing street
banners shall be required as a condition to obtaining a permit, to indemnify and
hold harmless the City, the Department, its officers and employees, from any
liability resulting from the applicant’s use of the public property and shall
execute the necessary agreements satisfactory to the City Attorney.	(j)	Term
Bond or Continuing Cash Deposit Acceptable.  A separate bond or cash deposit
may be posted in connection with each particular, but in lieu thereof, the Board
may accept a term bond or a continuing cash deposit conditioned to cover all
permits which may be issued to any one applicant commercial entity installing
street banners during a specified period of not to exceed one year, provided,
however, that when the total aggregate required indemnity on all permits
requested by the applicant commercial street banner installation company is
greater than the limit of liability on the term bond, or greater than the cash
deposit maintained, no additional permits shall be issued to the applicant
commercial street banner installation company until sufficient additional
indemnity to cover the same is furnished.  (Former Subsec. (i) Redesignated as
Subsec. (j) by Ord. No. 176,630, Eff. 6/14/05.)	(k)	Permits – Issuance –
Denial.  Provided that any application for a permit to hang a street banner or
banners meets the eligibility requirements of this ordinance, the Board shall
issue, in whole or in part, a permit authorizing the installation of the
requested street banner or banners, as long as the required fees, bond,
insurance policy and other protection prescribed above have been posted and
approved and provided the installation of such banner or banners will not damage
public property, unreasonably interfere with its proper use, or endanger public
safety or welfare, as determined by the Board of Public Works.  Each street
banner permit application shall be reviewed by staff in consultation with the
City Attorney to determine if the request complies with all the requirements of
this ordinance.  If staff determines that the request is in full compliance
with this ordinance, the permit shall be issued.  If staff determines that the
application is not in compliance with this ordinance, staff shall timely notify
the applicant of the reason or reasons for non-compliance and, if possible,
suggest what could be done to bring the street banner request into compliance
with the ordinance.  If a street banner request is ultimately denied by the
City, staff shall e-mail or fax the basis of the denial to the applicant. 
(Former Subsec. (j) Redesignated as Subsec. (k) and Amended by Ord. No. 176,630,
Eff. 6/14/05.)	(l)	Permit – Duration.  (Former Subsec. (k) Redesignated as
Subsec. (l) by Ord. No. 176,630, Eff. 6/14/05.)	(1)	Single Event.  The term of
each permit shall be specified on the permit by the Board.  The term of the
permit for street banners announcing a single event shall not exceed 30 days. 
A permit may be renewed or extended for up to two additional 30 day terms. A
permit may not be renewed or extended at any of the 30 day intervals when the
City has on file, at the time of the requested extension, a permit application
from a different entity seeking a permit for the same light poles occupied by
the entity seeking the permit extension.  The entity seeking the permit
extension may request different light poles, if available, in instances where
the original light poles are used by a new permittee.  Under no circumstances
shall a street banner announcing a single event installed pursuant to a permit
issued pursuant to this code remain on the City’s light standards for more
than 90 days in a 12 month period.	(2)	Series of Events.  The term of each
permit shall be specified on the permit by the Board.  The term of the initial
permit for street banners announcing a series of events shall not exceed 60
days.  An initial permit may be renewed or extended for one additional 30 day
term.  After 90 days, pursuant to an initial permit with two renewals, a second
permit application may be submitted for a term of 30 days to maintain the
already installed street banners.  The second permit may be renewed for up to
two additional 30 day terms. A permit may not be renewed or extended at any of
the 30 day intervals when the City has on file, at the time of the requested
extension, a permit application from a different entity seeking a permit for the
same light poles occupied by the entity seeking the permit extension.  The
entity seeking the permit extension may request different light poles, if
available, in instances where the original light poles are used by a new
permittee. Under no circumstances shall a street banner announcing a series of
events installed pursuant to a permit issued pursuant to this code remain on the
City’s light standards for more than 180 days in a 12 month
period.	(3)	Non-Event.  The term of each permit shall be specified on the
permit by the Board.  The term of the initial permit for non-event street
banners shall not exceed 90 days.  An initial permit may be renewed or extended
for up to three additional 90 day terms.  A permit may not be renewed or
extended at any of the 90 day intervals when the City has on file, at the time
of the requested extension, a permit application from a different entity seeking
a permit for the same light poles occupied by the entity seeking the permit
extension.  The entity seeking the permit extension may request different light
poles, if available, in instances where the original light poles are used by a
new permittee.	(m)	Permits – Location of Street Banners Announcing an Event or
Series of Events.  All street banners announcing an event or series of events
must be placed on all usable streetlight poles on one City block.  Any permit
to hang street banners announcing an event or series of events pursuant to this
code shall be deemed a “City-wide” permit request if the number of light
poles involved is 200 or more.  If a permittee requests 200 or more light
poles, the party requesting the permit may place a maximum of 50 street banners
in the vicinity of the event venue and must place the remaining street banners
equally in all Council districts.  (Former Subsec. (l) Redesignated as Subsec.
(m) by Ord. No. 176,630, Eff. 6/14/05.)	(n)	Permits – Revocation.  (Former
Subsec. (m) Redesignated as Subsec. (n) by Ord. No. 176,630, Eff. 6/14/05.) 
Permits may be revoked by the Board in whole or in part on one or more of the
following grounds:	1.	The maintenance of any street banner endangers public
welfare, safety or property;	2.	Failure or refusal to observe any provision of
this section or any rule promulgated by the Board pursuant to authority granted
by this section; or	3.	A material misrepresentation in the
application.	(o)	Removal of Street Banner.  (Former Subsec. (n) Redesignated as
Subsec. (o) by Ord. No. 176,630, Eff. 6/14/05.)  Upon expiration of any permit,
any street banner covered thereby must be removed by the permittee within 72
hours of the date of expiration unless a renewal or written extension is granted
by the Board.  Any street banner not so removed may be removed by the Board
without notice to the permittee.  Upon whole or partial revocation of any
permit, all street banners covered thereby must be removed on the same date of
revocation unless a renewal or written extension is granted by the Board.  Any
street banner not so removed shall, upon reasonable notice to the permittee, be
removed by the Board.  Where any street banner presents an immediate threat of
harm to the public health, welfare or safety, the Board shall summarily cause
its removal.	The costs of all Board removals shall be collected by the Board
from the permittee or from his surety.	(p)	Installation and Maintenance of
Street Banners.  Every street banner must be installed and maintained so as to
be safe at all times; it must not include a print size for any text smaller than
that adopted by the Board of Public Works in its rules and regulations; it must
not obstruct the clear view of traffic signals by pedestrians or operators of
bicycles, motor bikes, cars, trucks or any other type of vehicle or mode of
transportation; it must have a minimum clearance of 22 feet over rails used by
freight cars, of 16 feet above roadways.  The Board may prescribe other needed
clearance requirements.  (Former Subsec. (o) Redesignated as Subsec. (p) by
Ord. No. 176,630, Eff. 6/14/05.)	(q)	Rules and Regulations.  Consistent with
this section, the Board may adopt rules or regulations to administer the
installation, maintenance and removal of street banners including rules or
regulations pertaining to their location, size, suspension and construction. The
Board may adopt any other rule or regulation for the protection of public
safety, welfare or property. (Former Subsec. (p) Redesignated as Subsec. (q) by
Ord. No. 176,630, Eff. 6/14/05.)	(r)	Commercial Content on Street Banners. 
Nothing in the general prohibition on street banners shall prevent a for-profit
entity from receiving recognition on the street banners announcing an otherwise
allowable Community, Charitable or Non-Profit event, or on permitted non-event
street banners, provided that the recognition of the for-profit sponsorship
shall be limited to the name and or logo of one for-profit sponsoring entity per
street banner and the size of said name or logo shall be limited to less than
20% of the total area of the street banner.  The City of Los Angeles may defray
the cost of City of Los Angeles organized and administered events, and the cost
of non-event street banners by allowing for-profit entities to co-sponsor City
organized and administered events and non-event street banners, provided that
the recognition of the for-profit entity’s co-sponsorship of City events, or
non-event street banners is limited to the same size and content as for
allowable Community, Charitable, or Non-Profit events or permitted non-event
street banners.  (Former Subsec. (q) Redesignated as Subsec. (r) by Ord. No.
176,630, Eff. 6/14/05.)	(s)	The provisions of Article 7, Chapter 6, prohibiting
certain outdoor advertising structures, post signs and advertising statuary
adjacent to freeways, and establishing the procedure for the consideration and
issuance of permits for such structures, signs and statuary, shall also apply in
the same manner and degree to “Street Banner”.  (Former Subsec. (r)
Redesignated as Subsec. (s) by Ord. No. 176,630, Eff. 6/14/05.)	(t)	Street
Banners – City Ownership after 30 Days.  Up to 3% of the street banners
included in any permit application and hung in the City of Los Angeles for more
than 30 days may become the property of the City of Los Angeles, if a permittee
is notified, at least three days prior to the expiration of the permit, that the
City wishes to take possession of the street banners once they are removed from
the City’s poles by the permittee. If so notified, the permittee shall return
the banners to the City once they are removed from the City’s poles.  If the
City fails to notify the permittee at least three days before the expiration of
the permit that it wishes to take possession of the banners, the City shall
forfeit its right of ownership over said banners.  (Former Subsec. (s)
Redesignated as Subsec. (t) by Ord. No. 176,630, Eff. 6/14/05.)
