                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

STREET INTERSECTIONS – OBSTRUCTIONS TO VISIBILITY. (§ 62.200)

  STREET INTERSECTIONS – OBSTRUCTIONS TO VISIBILITY.	(a)	Obstructions
Prohibited.  (Amended by Ord. No. 163,509, Eff. 5/23/88.)  On property at any
corner of any intersection not controlled by official traffic control signals or
by stop signs at or near the entrances to one or more intersecting streets it
shall be unlawful to install, set out or maintain, or to allow the installation,
setting out or maintenance of any sign, hedge, shrubbery, natural growth or
other obstruction to the view necessary for the safe operation of motor vehicles
at such intersections, higher than three feet above the level of the center of
the adjacent intersection within any visibility triangle.	The terms
“visibility triangle”, as illustrated in Figure A, shall be deemed to be
that portion of both public and private property located at any corner and
bounded by the curb line or edge of roadway of the intersecting streets and a
line joining points on the curb or edge of roadway 45 feet from the point of
intersection of the extended curb lines or edges of roadway.	The term
“intersection” as used in this section is defined in Section 365 of the
Vehicle Code of the State of California.	(b)	Exceptions: (Amended by Ord. No.
127,787, Eff. 8/1/64.)  The foregoing provision shall not apply to permanent
buildings; public utility poles; trees trimmed (to the trunk) to a line at least
eight feet above the level of the intersection; saplings or plant species of
open growth habits and not planted in the form of a hedge, which are so planted
and trimmed as to leave at all seasons a clear and unobstructed cross-view;
supporting members of appurtenances to permanent buildings existing on the date
this ordinance becomes effective; official warning signs or signals; post signs
as defined in Article 7, Chapter 6 of this Code; or to places where the contour
of the ground is such that there can be no cross-visibility at the
intersection.FIGURE A*
VISIBILITY TRIANGLE* NOTE: The hatched areas in this figure illustrate the
visibility triangle areas at typical intersections.	The Board may grant further
exceptions where it finds that the encroachment is not an obstruction to
visibility and where such encroachment is not in conflict with the zoning or
building line regulations of Articles 2 and 4 of Chapter I of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code. Applications for exception shall be in writing and shall be
filed with the Board in the manner it prescribes.	(c)	Enforcement.  The
enforcement of this ordinance shall be under the direction of the Board of
Public Works. The Board shall designate representatives of the Department of
Public Works who may, on behalf of the Board, investigate violations of this
section, give such notices as may be required to carry out this section, and to
perform such other duties in connection with the enforcement of this section as
may be imposed upon them by the Board.	(d)	Remedies.  (Amended by Ord. No.
175,596, Eff. 12/7/03.)  In addition to the remedies proved in Section 11.00 of
this Code, or by State law, any obstruction maintained in violation of this
section may be deemed a nuisance, and upon failure to abate the nuisance within
20 days after the posting upon the premises of notice to abate the nuisance
signed by an authorized representative of the Board, an authorized
representative of the Board may enter upon the premises and remove or eliminate
the obstruction.	All costs incurred pursuant to this section shall be a personal
obligation against the owner of the property, recoverable by the City in an
action before any court of competent jurisdiction.  These costs shall include
an amount equal to 40 percent of the cost to perform the actual work, but not
less than the sum of $100.00, to cover the City’s costs for administering any
contract and supervising the work required.  In addition to this personal
obligation and all other remedies provided by law, the City may collect any
judgment, fee, cost, or charge, including any permit fees, fines, late charges,
or interest, incurred in relation to the provisions of this section as provided
in Los Angeles Administrative Code Sections 7.35.1 through 7.35.8.	(e)	Scope. 
No obstruction to cross-visibility shall be deemed to be excepted from the
application of this section because of its being in existence at the time of the
adoption hereof, unless expressly exempted by the terms of this
section.	(f)	Additional Requirements Contained in Chapter I, Article 2.  In
addition to the requirements of this section, all corner lots in the C or M
Zones shall be developed in accordance with the provisions of Section 12.21 C.7.
of this Code.  (Added by Ord. No. 143,825, Eff. 10/19/72.)	(g)	Neither the
enactment of this section nor the enforcement of or failure to enforce any
provision herein is intended to or shall impose a liability upon the City not
otherwise imposed by law. (Added by Ord. No. 163,509, Eff. 5/23/88.)
