                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

MAJOR TRANSIT AND TRANSPORTATION CONSTRUCTION IMPACT AREA TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT.
(§ 62.250)

  MAJOR TRANSIT AND TRANSPORTATION CONSTRUCTION IMPACT AREA TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 175,630, Eff. 12/28/03.)

	A.	General Provisions.

	1.	Purpose.  The purpose of this article is to minimize the loss of traffic
capacity within various Major Transit and Transportation Construction Impact
Areas resulting from construction activity, including Metro Rail, Light Rail,
busway, utility, private development, street improvement, street maintenance,
and major public works projects.

	2.	Scope.  This article shall apply to any activity or work within any public
street or alley within a defined Major Transit and Transportation Construction
Impact Area commencing with the effective date of this ordinance and extending
until the completion of all major transit and transportation construction within
the City of Los Angeles. 

	B.	Definitions.  For the purposes of this article, the following definitions
apply:

	1.	Appeals Committee.  The General Manager of the Department of
Transportation, the City Engineer, the Director of the Bureau of Street
Services, and the Director of the Bureau of Contract Administration, or their
designees.  The City Engineer shall be the Chairperson of the Appeals
Committee. The Appeals Committee considers appeals regarding Worksite Traffic
Control Conditions and night work.  The President of the Board of Public Works
decides those appeals heard by the Appeals Committee that end in a tie vote.

	2.	Code.  Los Angeles Municipal Code.

	3.	Emergency Work.  Immediate action that must be taken to alleviate a
hazardous condition, which represents an immediate threat to life, health,
safety, or property.  This includes continuous effort to effect the restoration
of interrupted utility services (electrical, water, gas and telecommunications).

	4.	Effective Period.  Commencing with the effective date of this ordinance and
extending until the completion of all major transit and transportation
construction within the City of Los Angeles and the adoption by the Board of
Public Works of a report from the Review Committee that its function as defined
by this ordinance is no longer necessary.

	5.	Activity or Work Within Public Street or Alley.

	(a)	Activity.  Any activity within the public street (from property line to
property line) or alley, which requires the closure of sidewalk(s), curb lane(s)
and/or traffic lane(s), the closure of street(s) or alley(s) for other than
performing work in the street as defined below.  Activity in the street may
include but is not limited to opening of utility maintenance access holes; block
parties; picture, television movie, or commercial filming; storage of material
or equipment; placement of trash bin(s); pedestrian canopy(ies) in the street or
sidewalk or any activity, performed under City issued permit, that prevents the
public from access to or the use of a sidewalk, street or alley or any portion
of a sidewalk, street or alley.

	For exemptions to the picture, television and film or video commercial industry
from the requirements of this section, see Subsection H.  For Film Video Permit
application by telephone or facsimiles and the Review Committee response within
one-working day, see Subsection I.

	(b)	Work.  Work within the public street (from property line to property line)
or alley is any construction work performed under permit or by City
crews/contractors that requires the physical access to and closure of the
existing sidewalk, street or alley.  Street work may include but is not limited
to cutting, boring, excavating, installation of instrumentation, installation of
conduit and/or cable, pot-holing, removals, fills, street resurfacing (including
slurrying), street construction or any work in the street or alley, performed
under City issued permit, that prevents the public from access or use of a
sidewalk, street or alley or any portion of a sidewalk, street or alley.

	6.	Major Transit and Transportation Construction Impact Area.  The specified
Major Transit  and Transportation Construction Impact Areas are defined as
follows:

	(a)	Area A.  (Relinquished)

	(b)	Area B.  (Relinquished)

	(c)	Area C.  (Relinquished)

	(d)	Area D.  (Relinquished)

	(e)	Area E.  (As of July 11, 1995)  The area bounded clockwise by North Hill
Street, Bernard Street, North Broadway, North Spring Street, Los Angeles River
(west bank) and the 101 Freeway.

	A map of Area “E” is attached as Appendix “E.”

	(f)	Area F.  (As of July 11, 1995)  The area bounded clockwise by North
Figueroa Street, Marmion Way, Monte Vista Street, Avenue 61, Piedmont Avenue,
Figueroa Street, Pasadena Avenue, North San Fernando Road, and the following
street segments: Avenue 50 from Malta Street to Monte Vista Street, Avenue 52
from Figueroa Street to Echo Street, Avenue 54 from Ash Street to Monte Vista
Street, Avenue 54 from Figueroa Street to Longfellow Street, Avenue 57 from
Figueroa Street to Media Drive, Avenue 60 from Figueroa Street to Echo Street
and Avenue 61 from Terrace Drive to Monte Vista Street.

	A map of Area “F” is attached as Appendix “F.”

	(g)	Area G.  (Revised on August 1, 2003)  The area bounded clockwise by Cesar
E. Chavez Avenue, North Indiana Street, East 3rd Place, East 4th Street, Alameda
Street, East 1st Street, North Hope Street, and North Grand Avenue.

	A map of Area “G” is attached as Appendix “G.”

	(h)	Area H.  (Revised on August 1, 2003)  The area bounded clockwise by
Victory Boulevard, De Soto Avenue, Vanowen Street, Corbin Avenue, Victory
Boulevard, Fulton Avenue, Oxnard Street, Coldwater Canyon Avenue, Burbank
Boulevard, Vineland Avenue, Magnolia Boulevard, Woodman Avenue, Burbank
Boulevard, Balboa Boulevard, Oxnard Street, Topham Street, Victory Boulevard, De
Soto Avenue, Oxnard Street, and Variel Avenue.

	A map of Area “H” is attached as Appendix “H.”

	(i)  Area I.  The area bounded clockwise by Wilshire Boulevard,  Bundy
Drive, San Vicente Boulevard, Federal Avenue, Ohio Avenue, Veteran Avenue,
Wilshire Boulevard to City Limit, Santa Monica Boulevard, Century Park East,
West Pico Boulevard, Centinela Avenue, West Olympic Boulevard, and Centinela
Avenue.

	A map of Area “I” is attached as Appendix “I.”

	7.	Street of Significance.  A major or secondary highway or a selected local
or collector street that is determined from time to time to be necessary for the
safe and efficient movement of traffic within, across, or through a Major
Transit and Transportation Construction Area.  Streets determined to be of
significance at the adoption of this Section are indicated as Streets of
Significance on the maps of the designated Major Transit and Transportation
Construction Impact Areas attached to this Ordinance as Appendices “E”
through “I.”  Areas “A” through “D” have been relinquished.

	8.	Review Committee.  Designated staff members from the Department of
Transportation, the Bureau of Engineering, the Bureau of Street Services, and
the Bureau of Contract Administration shall review applications for permits to
allow activity or work within streets and shall determine the Worksite Traffic
Control Conditions.

	9.	Temporary Street Closure.  The prohibition of the use of a street by the
general public for a finite period, as approved by the Board of Public Works.

	10.	Traffic Management Fee.  A fee to be collected by the Department of Public
Works from permittees who desire to perform street work or activity, for the
purpose of recovering City administrative costs required to enforce this
article.

	11.	Worksite Traffic Control Conditions.  Traffic management measures required
of the applicant for a permit for street activity or work, which are determined
by the Review Committee and are issued by the Department of Public Works as part
of the permit.

	12.	Worksite Traffic Control Plan.  A Worksite Traffic Control Plan, which may
be required by the Review Committee, includes a drafted, 1&#038;″ = 40′
scale plan delineating base conditions, construction impact areas, site-specific
detour operations, such as traffic striping, pavement and curb markings, traffic
control signs, signals, delineators, barricades, and traffic management
requirements, at a precise level of detail.

	C.	Traffic Management.  Contractors, utility companies, and others who intend
to obtain a permit to perform activity or work in the streets (sidewalks and
roadways) with the Major Transit and Transportation Construction Impact Area
shall submit with the permit application a dimensioned work plan (drawn to
scale) including the street (roadway, sidewalk, and property line), existing
traffic controls, traffic striping and pavement markings, and proposed work area
to the Major Transit and Transportation Construction Traffic Management
Committee (TCTMC or Review Committee).  The Review Committee shall review the
applicant’s work plan and develop the worksite traffic control requirements,
which may include the following:  daytime work and/or nighttime work with
Police Commission approval, work hours, day(s) of the week, traffic lane
requirements, restriping and/or installation of pavement markings, posting of
parking restrictions or prohibitions, installation of construction signs,
coordination and notification of other agencies or the public as required, use
of a pre-approved Worksite Traffic Control Plan or preparation of a Worksite
Traffic Control Plan and/or Traffic Circulation Plan for approval by the
Department of Transportation, and any other conditions as may be deemed
appropriate by the Review Committee.

	Notwithstanding any provision of the Code to the contrary, commencing with the
effective date of this ordinance and extending until the completion of Major
Transit and Transportation construction within the City of Los Angeles, on all
streets and alleys designated as Streets of Significance within the Major
Transit and Transportation Construction Impact Areas:

	1.	Applicants for activity or work within the roadway, including the staging or
parking of construction related vehicles, which requires certain permits to be
identified mutually by the Review Committee, except as otherwise provided in
this section, shall be subject to certain traffic control requirements and
Traffic Management Fees.  Permit forms shall be modified, if required, to
indicate which fees and requirements apply (which may include, but are not
limited to construction related vehicle staging, approved night work with Police
Commission approval, Worksite Traffic Control Conditions, and/or Worksite
Traffic Control Plan requirements), and if so, that the imposed requirements are
part of and attached to the permit. The applicant shall retain a photocopy of
the permit with attachments at the worksite.

	(a)	For work within the roadway, which is proposed to be conducted at night
between 7:00 PM and 5:30 AM Monday through Saturday, the applicant shall
normally be required to maintain at least two lanes of traffic on a one-way
street and one lane of traffic in each direction on a two-way street during
those night hours with all lanes open to traffic at all other times, unless a
Temporary Street Closure is approved.  Also, the applicant shall maintain those
traffic control devices and flashing arrow signs, shown and discussed in the
latest editions of the Work Area Traffic Control Handbook (WATCH manual), the
Federal Highway Administration’s Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices,
and the State of California Traffic Manual.  In addition, the applicant shall
obtain Police Commission approval to work at night.  No Traffic Management Fee
will be assessed for night work.  A Worksite Traffic Control Plan may be
required for work at night as determined by the Review Committee.

	(b)	For work within the roadway, which is proposed to be conducted during any
other time period, or with fewer proposed open lanes of traffic, or work within
an intersection or for temporary street closure, the applicant shall submit to
the Review Committee work schedules, staging plans, and dimensioned scaled
drawings showing the proposed work areas, official street centerlines, curb
lines, adjacent intersections, existing striping, existing parking controls,
existing driveways, and proposed detour traffic controls for each stage of
work.  If approval for work within the proposed day-time period or with only
one lane of traffic is denied by the Review Committee then the applicant shall
seek approval to work at night, as discussed above, or may appeal the
requirement for night work to the Appeals Committee.  If the Review Committee
grants approval for work within the proposed day-time period, then it shall
subject the applicants to a Traffic Management Fee and assign Worksite Traffic
Control Conditions to be incorporated in the appropriate permit issued by the
Department of Public Works.  These conditions shall include traffic management
strategies within the public right-of-way such as: general traffic control
requirements; traffic control devices required to be used; traffic lane
requirements and lane closures; hours approved for construction; detours, which
shall be implemented by the applicant; and, if determined to be necessary by the
Review Committee, an approved Worksite Traffic Control Plan submitted by the
applicant to the Department of Transportation for approval. 

	(c)	A Worksite Traffic Control Plan may be required where street work
necessitates that motorists travel in paths for several days that conflict with
permanent striping.  The Worksite Traffic Control Plan and Traffic Circulation
Plan, if required, shall be prepared under the direction of a Traffic Engineer
or a Civil Engineer experienced in the preparation of Traffic Control Plans and
registered in the State of California, and shall have the signed approval of the
Division Engineer in Charge of the Design Division, Department of
Transportation, prior to the issuance by the Department of Public Works of the
appropriate permit.  Each copy, including the permittee required copies, shall
be signed and stamped by the registered engineer.  Two copies shall be retained
by the Department of Transportation and three copies by the Bureau of
Engineering.  An Approved Worksite Traffic Control Plan and/or Traffic
Circulation Plan may be required when the activity or work in the street
necessitate that:  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,237, Eff. 9/28/12.)

	(i)	two or more traffic lanes be closed for more than 48 hours; or 

	(ii)	motorists are diverted to the left of an existing double-yellow centerline
for two or more consecutive nights and restriping is required; or

	(iii)	the work is in or adjacent to a major and/or secondary highway
intersection and results in a transition within the intersection, except when
accessing a maintenance hole when allowed under the provisions of a Utility
Maintenance Access Hole Permit; or

	(iv)	traffic will be diverted for an extended period of time for a major
construction project; or

	(v)	a temporary street closure is approved by the Board of Public Works; or

	(vi)	a construction fence, canopy, scaffolding or similar structure is
installed in a traffic lane within the roadway; or

	(vii)	a sidewalk is to be closed and pedestrians are required to walk in a
traffic lane normally utilized by vehicular traffic; or

	(viii)	temporary restriping is required; or

	(ix)	a plan is necessary due to unusual roadway or traffic conditions.

	2.	Persons or enterprises intending to import or export in excess of 1,000
cubic yards of earth shall be subject to approval of truck haul routes and truck
staging areas by the Review Committee.  The Traffic Management Fee shall not
apply to truck haul routing.

	3.	Requests for Temporary Street Closures, pursuant to Sections 41.20 and
42.00(j) of the Code, shall be filed with the Board of Public Works pursuant to
the requirements of those sections.  However, the Board of Public Works shall
not, in any case, act on any application for a Temporary Street Closure before
receiving from the Review Committee a recommendation with an attached, approved
Worksite Traffic Control Plan and Traffic Circulation Plan or a statement that
these plans are not required.

	4.	Streets of significance may be added or removed within a Major Transit and
Transportation Construction Area as determined to be necessary for the safe and
efficient movement of traffic.  These changes shall become effective 30 days
after the adoption by the Board of Public Works of a report from the Chair of
the Review Committee setting forth the need for the change and containing a map
clearly delineating the portion of the street to be added or deleted from the
designation.  A copy of the report and map shall be forwarded to the City
Council for its information.

	D.	Appeals.  Requests to appeal the requirement for night work, to modify the
Worksite Traffic Control Conditions, or to modify the Worksite Traffic Control
Plan and Traffic Circulation Plan shall be made in writing to the Chairperson of
the Appeals Committee, which shall act on each appeal at the earliest
practicable time.

	E.	Enforcement.  

	1.	It shall be unlawful for any person(s), firm or corporation(s) to perform
any activity or work within the Major Transit and Transportation Construction
Impact Area without first complying with Subsection C. of this section and
obtaining approval and a permit, excepting only emergency work as defined in
this section.

	2.	Failure to perform all of the requirements listed, shown, and/or referred to
in the Worksite Traffic Control Conditions and Worksite Traffic Control Plan
shall constitute non-compliance and shall be a violation of this section.

	3.	Enforcement of compliance with the Worksite Traffic Control Conditions,
Worksite Traffic Control Plan, and truck haul routing involving the import or
export in excess of 1,000 cubic yards of earth shall be conducted by the Bureau
of Contract Administration Inspectors or Bureau of Street Services Street Use
Inspectors, as appropriate, with the assistance of designated Department of
Transportation personnel.

	4.	Compliance shall be enforced by verbal requests, written warnings,
citations, notices to appear for violations observed, by administrative action
pursuant to due process provisions, or permit revocation, as appropriate for the
situation.  In order to be considered in compliance after the enforcement
action is taken, the permittee shall either correct all violations, or reopen
for public use the entire street and/or sidewalk immediately.  If the permittee
does not accomplish these actions, then the City shall cause the corrective work
only to be done by City forces at the permittee’s expense when necessary to
remedy a potentially hazardous condition.

	5.	Within five days after a permit revocation has been issued, the permittee
may appeal the revocation to the Board of Public Works, which shall make the
final decision relative to the appeal at the earliest legally possible scheduled
meeting.

	6.	Any person who violates or causes or permits another person to violate any
provision or requirement of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor. 

	F.	Traffic Management Fee.  The Traffic Management Fee shall be based on the
reduction in delineated traffic lanes, the number of daylight weekdays when the
reduction occurs, the number of City blocks impacted by lane reductions, and a
unit fee to be applied to these factors.  Daylight weekdays are work on Monday
through Friday excluding holidays, between the hours of 5:30 AM and 7:00 PM
inclusive.  The unit fee shall be established at $275 per lane reduction per
daylight weekday per City block impacted.  The fees collected shall be kept in
a separate account and shall be used to defray the costs of the various
departments and bureaus involved in administering the provisions of this
Ordinance.  The fee structure shall be subject to annual review and revision. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 182,237, Eff. 9/28/12.)

	The Traffic Management Fee of $275 per impacted City Block shall be charged to
permittees who perform work within the roadway.  The number of involved lanes,
days, and City blocks shall be determined by the Review Committee and certified
at the conclusion of the roadway work, if needed, by the Bureau by Contract
Administration or the Bureau of Street Services.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,237,
Eff. 9/28/12.)

	G.	Emergency Work.  The provisions of this section shall not be applicable to
Emergency Work as defined in this section. However, the designated unit of the
Department of Transportation shall be notified by the agency conducting the
emergency work as soon as practicable.  An applicable Traffic Management Fee
may apply.

	H.	The picture, television and film or video commercial industry is exempt from
requirements in those portions of the Major Transit and Transportation
Construction Impact Area where Major Transit and Transportation construction has
been completed as determined by the Review Committee. 

	I.	Picture, television and film or video commercial companies may submit permit
applications by telephone or by facsimile transmission to the appropriate Film
and Video Permit Office.  These applications will be processed by the Review
Committee members within one working day for those portions of the Major Transit
and Transportation  Construction Impact Area where Major Transit and
Transportation construction is continuing. 

	J.	Relinquishment Of Major Transit and Transportation Construction Impact
Area.  The deletion of a specific area from the Major Transit and
Transportation Construction Impact Area shall be accomplished when the following
occurs:

	1.	The Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) has
issued to the City a Certificate of Completion of Work for a specified
station(s) or rail segment located within a specific Major Transit and
Transportation Construction Project Impact Area, or

	2.	The acceptance of work completed for station(s) or rail segment(s) or other
transportation projects by all City Agencies involved; and

	3.	The Chairman of the Review Committee has submitted a report for approval to
the Board of Public Works, no later than 30 days prior to the date of
relinquishment of control of the specified Major Transit and Transportation
Construction Project Impact Area, and the relinquishment has been approved by
the Board of Public Works.

	K.	Termination of Review Committee Activities.  Any report requesting
termination of the Committee’s existence shall be prepared using the criteria
and procedures set forth in paragraphs 1., 2., and 3. of Section J., and shall
contain the statement that it is submitted for the purpose of terminating the
Committee’s existence and shall include as a transmittal a draft of an
ordinance to formally terminate the Committee’s functions.  The report shall,
upon adoption, be forwarded to the City Council for its action.

	Upon adoption of the ordinance by the City Council, the Committee shall
immediately cease to function and the authority to determine conditions attached
to permit issuance shall return to the individual Bureaus of the Department of
Public Works.

	L.	Major Transit and Transportation Construction Impact Area Implementation. 
Areas “E,” “F,” “G,” “H,” and “I” shall become effective
immediately upon the publication of this ordinance.  Future additions to the
Major Transit and Transportation Construction Impact Area shall be accomplished
by the Chairman of the Review Committee submitting a report for approval to the
Board of Public Works no later than 60 days following notification by the Los
Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) or other major
construction project development of opening of the Contract Bid Process for the
respective contract and the subsequent approval of the report by the Board of
Public Works.  The future area shall become effective 30 days after the
adoption by the Board of Public Works of a report from the Chair of the Review
Committee.

APPENDIX “E”
MAJOR TRANSIT AND TRANSPORTATION CONSTRUCTION IMPACT AREA

APPENDIX “F”
MAJOR TRANSIT AND TRANSPORTATION CONSTRUCTION IMPACT AREA

APPENDIX “G”
MAJOR TRANSIT AND TRANSPORTATION CONSTRUCTION IMPACT AREA

APPENDIX “H”
MAJOR TRANSIT AND TRANSPORTATION CONSTRUCTION IMPACT AREA

APPENDIX “I”
MAJOR TRANSIT AND TRANSPORTATION CONSTRUCTION IMPACT AREA

[Editor's Note:  Maps associated with these appendices are on file in the
official City documents located in the Office of the City Clerk in Council File
No. CF 02-2526.]
