                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

MATERIALS OR EQUIPMENT IN STREETS – PERMITS, REGULATIONS, FEES. (§ 62.45)

  MATERIALS OR EQUIPMENT IN STREETS – PERMITS, REGULATIONS,
FEES.	(a)	Definitions.  (Added by Ord. No. 155,987, Eff. 11/30/81.)	Crane.  A
vehicle equipped with a boom, mast or similar device which permits the lifting
and/or lowering of objects and the displacement of such objects horizontally
within fixed limits.	(b)	Permit required.  (Amended by Ord. No. 156,300, Eff.
3/14/82.)	1.	No person shall deposit or maintain in or upon any public street,
sidewalk or parkway any protection fence, protection canopy building material of
any kind, debris from any building or building excavation, or any kind of
material or equipment used or intended for use in connection with any building
or other work upon adjacent private property without first making and filing a
written application with the Board, receiving a permit therefrom so to do, and
paying to the Board a fee as set forth in Subsection (d) of this section to
cover all costs of processing the application for permit and
inspection.	EXCEPTION:  The provisions of this section shall not apply to
cranes mounted on vehicles which conform to the width, height, length, size and
weight limitations set forth in Division 15 of the Vehicle Code of the State of
California when no part of such vehicle, when parked and in operation in a
public street, extends more than 10 feet into the roadway from the curb or which
occupies less than one half the width of an alley in which it is working.	2.	No
person shall operate a helicopter as a crane for the purpose of lifting and
moving material or equipment from any public street, sidewalk or parkway to
adjacent private property or for the purpose of lifting and/or moving any
material or equipment in connection with building or other work on private
property where such object might at any time be suspended above any public
street, sidewalk or parkway without first making and filing a written
application with the Board, receiving a permit therefrom so to do, and paying to
the Board a fee as set forth in Subsection (d) of this section to cover all
costs of processing the application for permit and inspection. Provided further
that no permit shall be issued unless the applicant also posts and maintains
with the Board a policy of property damage insurance or a bond in the amount and
subject to the conditions and requirements set forth in Section 62.145 of this
Code with respect to overloads.	3.	The Board may, by any such permit, require
compliance with special conditions to safeguard the public and protect the
public street and sidewalk or other public improvements.	(c)	Application for
Permit.  (Subsec. (b) redesignated (c) by Ord. No. 155,987, Eff. 11/30/81.) 
The application for said permit shall contain:	1.	The name, address and
telephone number of the applicant; and	2.	The name, location and area of the
street for which a permit is desired.	(d)	Permit Fees.  (Subsec. (c)
redesignated (d) by Ord. No. 155,987, Eff. 11/30/81.)	1.	For depositing and
maintaining any protection fence, protection canopy, building material, debris
or equipment, excepting cranes, in or upon any public streets, sidewalks or
parkways, a permit fee by square foot occupied shall be charged except that such
amount shall be not less than the minimum permit fee established by the Board. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 165,675, Eff. 5/11/90.)	2.	For the use or operation of any
helicopter and for the use, storing or maintaining of one or more cranes in or
upon any public street, sidewalk or parkway, a permit fee for the first day or
fraction thereof, plus an additional fee for each additional day a fraction
thereof for each work site shall be charged. In the event the permittee files a
subsequent application after the original permit has expired for the same
location and for additional days not specified in the original permit, a new
permit fee for the first day or fraction thereof plus an additional fee for each
additional day or fraction thereof shall be required.  (Amended by Ord. No.
165,675, Eff. 5/11/90.)	3.	In addition to inspections made In connection with
permits issued pursuant to this section during the normal work week, the
Director may, pursuant to the authority provided in Section 61.08 of this Code,
provide for inspections during other than normal working hours. In the event the
Director determines that such inspection will be required, the permittee shall
deposit in advance an amount determined by the Director to be adequate to cover
the cost of inspection. Such cost of inspection shall be computed at 1-1/2 times
the hourly wage of a Senior Inspector 2 for the period of time such inspector
will be needed, as estimated by the Director. At the completion of all such
inspection activity, the Director shall deduct from such individual deposit the
accrued cost of inspection and shall refund to the permittee any difference
between the amount deposited and the amount so deducted. (Added by Ord. No.
155,987, Eff. 11/30/81.)	4.	The fees and charges herein shall be determined and
adopted in the same manner as provided in Section 12.37 I.1. of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code for establishing fees.  (Added by Ord. No. 165,675, Eff.
5/11/90.)	5.	In addition to all other fees owed, the Bureau of Engineering shall
charge and collect a fee of $32.50 for each permit issued pursuant to the
provisions of this Section that the Bureau processes.  (Added by Ord. No.
182,237, Eff. 9/28/12.)
