                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

WORK WITHIN OR ON A PUBLIC STREET OR RIGHT-OF-WAY, OBSTRUCTION OF A PUBLIC
STREET OR RIGHT-OF-WAY – PERMIT REQUIRED, REGULATIONS, PENALTIES FOR
NON-COMPLIANCE. (§ 62.61)

  WORK WITHIN OR ON A PUBLIC STREET OR RIGHT-OF-WAY, OBSTRUCTION OF A PUBLIC
STREET OR RIGHT-OF-WAY – PERMIT REQUIRED, REGULATIONS, PENALTIES FOR
NON-COMPLIANCE.
	(Added by Ord. No. 178,103, Eff. 1/9/07.)	(a)	Definitions.	1.	“Activity or
Work Permissible within a Public Street” is defined as any work or activity
permitted by this Code, or authorized by the Board of Public
Works.	2.	“Emergency Work” is defined as immediate and unplanned action that
must be taken to alleviate a hazardous condition, which represents an immediate
threat to life, health, safety, or property.  This includes continuous efforts
to effect the restoration of interrupted utility services (electrical, water,
gas, wastewater and telecommunications).	3.	“Peak Hour Construction and
Right-of-Way Obstruction Regulations” is defined as all regulations contained
in this section that control and limit all construction and obstruction activity
in the public right of way during “Peak Traffic Hours.”	4.	“Peak Traffic
Hours” is defined as Monday through Friday, 6:00 am to 9:00 am and 3:30 pm to
7:00 pm.	5.	“Street Classifications Subject to Work Hour Restrictions” is
defined as major and secondary highways, or collector streets, as designated in
the transportation element of the general plan.	6.	“Temporary Street
Closure” is defined as the temporary restriction of all vehicular traffic for
construction purposes authorized by a valid permit, and an approved “Traffic
Management Plan.”	7.	“Traffic Lane Closure” is defined as any activity
within the public street (from curb-line to curb-line), or in an alley, which
reduces the usable width to the point where one or more lanes of traffic cannot
move safely and efficiently.	8.	“Traffic Management Plan” is defined as a
Plan that addresses traffic control requirements in a construction area, and
along detour routes.  The operation of a Traffic Management Plan is affected by
the project’s construction phasing, construction schedules, and work area
required by the contractor, and shall be consistent with the contractor’s
project requirements, provided by the Department of Public Works.	9.	“Worksite
Traffic Conditions” is defined as those physical conditions, including
signage, signal devices, operation of equipment, and  conduct of workers (which
are required by law), permit and plans to provide adequate street space, and
accommodate traffic demands, particularly during peak traffic hours.	(b)	Permit
Required.  No person shall effect a “Traffic Lane Closure,” perform work
within or on any public street or right-of-way or obstruct any public street or
right-of-way for any reason without first applying for, in writing, and
obtaining a permit from the Board of Public Works.  The person or entity
requesting the permit shall pay all applicable permit fees as set by the Board
of Public Works pursuant to the Los Angeles Municipal Code sections governing
the issuance of “A,” “B,” Excavation, Manhole, Sewer and Utility permits
for work in the public right-of-way or any permit issued by the Bureau of Street
Services for obstruction of the Public Right-of-Way.  	1.	Prohibition on Work
or Obstructions During Peak Traffic Hours.  Notwithstanding any other provision
of this code, no person or entity shall effect a “Traffic Lane Closure,”
perform work within or on any public street or right-of-way or in any manner
obstruct a public street or right-of-way on those “Street Classifications
Subject to Work Hour Restrictions” during “Peak Traffic Hours,” all as
defined above.	2.	Exemption from Work or Obstruction Prohibition During Peak
Traffic Hours.	A.	“Emergency Work” as defined above shall be exempt from the
prohibition on work or obstruction of public streets or rights-of-way during
“Peak Traffic Hours” if the party performing the emergency work contacts the
designated City agency as determined by the Board of Public Works prior to the
work being initiated in the right of way and obtains a permit within 48 hours of
beginning the emergency work.	B.	If a party desires to have a non-emergency
public right-of-way construction project or other “Traffic Lane Closure”
exempted from the prohibition on work or obstruction of public streets or
rights-of-way during “Peak Traffic Hours,” the party shall submit the
request with its permit application to the appropriate City permitting agency
along with a “Traffic Management Plan.”  If the “Traffic Management
Plan” is approved by the City for work during “Peak Traffic Hours,” the
project is exempt.	3.	Fee for Processing Applications for Exemption from Work or
Obstruction Prohibition during Peak Hours.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,237, Eff.
9/28/12.)  The Bureau of Engineering shall charge and collect a fee of $250 for
processing each request submitted pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph B. of
Subdivision 2. of this Subsection.	(c)	Application for Permit.  Any application
for a permit under this Section shall include the following information:	1.	The
name, address and telephone number of the applicant and the person responsible
for the work or obstruction of the public street or right-of-way;	2.	The name,
location and area of the street for which the permit is desired; and	3.	A
description of the work to be done within the public street or right -of-way and
an explanation of why the proposed obstruction of the public street or
right-of-way is necessary.	(d)	Penalties for Non-Compliance.	1.	Administrative
Penalties.	A.	The failure to obtain a permit pursuant to this section, the
failure to abide by the “Peak Hour Construction and Public Right-of-Way
Obstruction Regulations” contained in this section, the failure to comply with
“Worksite Traffic Conditions” or the violation of any special condition or
requirement of a valid construction permit  issued pursuant to the Los Angeles
Municipal Code, shall subject the violator to administrative penalties as
follows:  (1) For each violation listed on the initial citation, $250.00; (2)
For each violation on a second citation, issued to the same person or entity, if
the violations occurred within 12 months of the first citation date, $500.00;
(3) For each violation on a third citation, issued to the same person or entity,
if the violations occurred within 12 months of the first citation date,
$1,000.00.	B.	Any administrative penalty issued pursuant to this section shall
be governed by the provisions set forth in Section 80.06.1 of this Code.  The
Department of Transportation, Administrative Adjudication Division shall conduct
any required administrative hearings for any appeal of a citation issued
pursuant to Section 62.61 of this Code in the same manner in which it conducts
processes pursuant to Section 80.06(c) of this Code for parking
citations.	2.	Criminal Prosecution for Multiple Violations.  Four or more
administrative citations issued to the same person or entity within 12 months
may constitute a misdemeanor under the Los Angeles Municipal Code, may subject
the violator to prosecution by the Los Angeles City Attorney’s Office and may
subject the violator to other potential criminal penalties as allowed by law.
