                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DRAINAGE OF WATER INTO STREETS. (§ 62.80)

  DRAINAGE OF WATER INTO STREETS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 146,877, Eff. 2/22/75.)	(a)	It is unlawful for any person
to drain water or other liquids or permit water or other liquids to be drained,
from lands or premises under such person’s management or control onto any
public street by any means which results in damage to the public street, or
causes interference with or damage or hazard to public travel.	(b)	It is
unlawful for any person to keep, store or distribute water or other liquids for
any purpose so as to permit such water or other liquids to overflow onto, to
saturate by seepage, or to obstruct any public street, to the damage of the
public street or cause interference with, or damage or hazard to public
travel.	EXCEPTION:  After receiving a permit from the Board, a person may
discharge water onto a public street when it is necessary to do so in order to
conduct the initial test of fire fighting apparatus following completion of its
installation in a building.	Before accepting any application for such a permit
for filing, the Board shall collect an application fee which shall not be
refundable. The application shall be made on a form prescribed by the Board. A
separate application and permit shall be required for each street location where
water is to be discharged. The fee herein shall be determined and adopted in the
same manner as provided in Section 12.37I1 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code for
establishing fees.  (Amended by Ord. No. 165,675, Eff. 5/11/90.)	Discharge of
water pursuant to a permit issued under this exception shall be performed under
the supervision of an inspector appointed by the Board. The Board shall have the
authority to adopt rules and regulations governing the discharge of water onto
the street for the protection of the adjoining buildings and properties, roadway
surface, utility installations, storm drains and sewer facilities, and the
general public.
