                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

HOUSE MOVERS – COMPENSATION TO PUBLIC UTILITIES. (§ 62.85)

  HOUSE MOVERS – COMPENSATION TO PUBLIC UTILITIES.	(a)	Upon the issuance of
the permit provided for in Section 62.84 it shall be the duty of the Board to so
notify all Public Utilities affected thereby, and to instruct any of such Public
Utilities to temporarily rearrange any of their properties necessary to permit
the passage of any building or structure upon, over, along or across any street.
Such notification shall state the time when and the route over which such
temporary rearrangement of any property of said Public Utility shall
occur;	(b)	No Public Utility shall fail, neglect or refuse to comply with said
notice by the Board ordering such temporary rearrangement;	(c)	Such Public
Utility shall charge each housemover, as compensation for making such temporary
rearrangement of its property, the actual cost of rearranging and restoring any
of said property plus a reasonable sum, not exceeding fifteen percent (15%) of
such actual cost, as an allowance for supervision.	(d)	Such Public Utility must
within 30 days from and after the completion of the work of making such
temporary rearrangement or restoring of its property, present an itemized bill
of the cost thereof to the housemover for whom such temporary rearrangement or
restoring of its property was made.	(e)	In case the cost of the rearrangement,
protection and restoration of said property is less than the amount estimated
and deposited, as provided in Subsection (C) of Section 62.84, then the public
utility shall return to the permittee depositing the same the amount of unused
balance of said deposit, less the damage to said property, if any, caused by the
negligence of the permittee in moving any building or structure or section or
portion thereof. In case the actual cost is more than the amount estimated then
such public utility affected shall collect the actual cost of the work from the
permittee and the permittee shall pay said total cost. In the event a change of
route is necessary, any additional expense shall be borne by the permittee.
(Amended by Ord. No. 131,900, Eff. 4/9/66.)	(f)	The utility company shall notify
the permittee of any additional work required and it shall be incumbent upon the
permittee to order said work done, or have a representative on the ground who
shall be authorized to order said additional work by approving the expense in
connection with such additional work.
