                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS – HOUSE MOVERS’ PERMIT/ISSUANCE. (§ 62.84)

  BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS – HOUSE MOVERS’ PERMIT/ISSUANCE.	(A)	No House
Mover’s Permit shall be granted by the Board of Public Works, hereinafter
referred to as “the Board” except as follows:	1.	The applicant must first
furnish evidence that the Department of Building and Safety has received a
security deposit and, when the building or structure is to be moved to a
permanent site within the City limits, evidence that the Department of Building
and Safety has already issued a Relocation Permit for the particular building or
structure under the provisions of Division 83 of Article 1 of Chapter IX of the
Los Angeles Municipal Code (Building Code). (Amended by Ord. No. 163,920, Eff.
9/8/88.)	2.	The applicant shall pay to the Board a filing fee for each permit
requested; provided, however, that in the event a building or structure is under
18 feet in height, no filing fee shall be paid, and in the event more than one
permit is issued in connection with the movement of a building or structure, the
filing fee shall be paid only for the issuance of the first of such permits. The
fee herein shall be determined and adopted in the same manner as provided in
Section 12.37I1 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code for establishing fees. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 165,675, Eff. 5/11/90.)	3.	A separate application upon a
form furnished by the Board, must be filed and a separate permit obtained for
the moving of each separate building or structure, or portion of a building or
structure.	(B)	Each application for a House Mover’s Permit must show:	1.	The
type of construction of the building or structure to be moved and its maximum
height, weight and length when loaded to be moved. (Amended by Ord. No. 136,358,
Eff. 5/6/68.)	2.	The street location or other identifying description to which
it is proposed to be moved, and the route over, along, across and upon which
such building or structure, section or portion thereof is to be moved;	3.	The
number of sections in which the building or structure will be moved;	4.	The time
when it is proposed to be moved and within which removal will be
completed.	(C)	Immediately upon receipt of any such application, other than an
application to move a building or structure under 18 feet in height, the Board
shall mail notification to each public utility affected that such application
has been filed and each said public utility shall immediately acknowledge
receipt of such notification and within four (4) days thereafter shall submit
its objection or assent to any of the work for which a permit is required, and
shall also submit to the permittee a statement of the time required to rearrange
its plant and equipment and an estimate of the cost of rearranging, protecting
and restoring equipment, including any necessary protective flagging. Whereupon,
the permittee shall deposit with each said public utility affected the estimated
cost in cash, or in lieu of this, if satisfactory to the said public utility,
shall provide a corporate surety bond, and the said public utility shall then
immediately notify the Board that the permittee has complied with this
requirement. (Amended by Ord. No. 154,911, Eff. 4/2/81.)	At the expiration of
said four (4) day period, or upon receipt of the written assent of all Public
Utilities affected by the proposed moving of such building or structure, or
section or portion thereof, the Board shall proceed to the determination of the
issuance of such permit. Whenever any building or structure is proposed to be
moved in more than one section, a separate permit shall be issued for the moving
of each section or portion of such building or structure. No permit shall
authorize the moving of more than one building or structure, or more than one
section or portion of any building or structure in any case where any building
or structure is to be moved in two or more sections or portions. Every permit
shall become and be void unless such removal shall be completed within the time
specified in the application for such permit, provided, however, that the Board
may extend such time when the moving of any building or structure, or any
section or portion thereof, is rendered impracticable by reason of inclemency of
the weather, strikes, or other causes not within the control of the
house-mover.	(D)	Whenever the State of California, by its own employees or by
contract with an independent contractor, moves any house or structure and the
State retains the control and supervision of the moving, no cash deposit or bond
in lieu thereof, as in Subsection (C) hereof provided for, shall be required of
the State or the contractor.	(E)	(Added by Ord. No. 115,282, Eff. 2/8/60.)  No
House Mover’s Permit shall be granted by the Board except as follows:	1.	The
applicant shall post or have on file with the Board a policy of public liability
and property damage insurance approved by the City Attorney and conditioned:
That the permittee shall indemnify and hold harmless the City of Los Angeles and
its officers and employees from any and all loss, costs, damages or expense
resulting from or claimed to result from the operations of the permittee in
moving or causing to be moved any building or buildings for which a permit has
been issued, and that the permittee shall pay any and all loss, costs, damages,
or expense sustained by any person for personal injuries or property damage as a
result of the moving of such building or buildings.	A blanket coverage policy
may be filed to cover two or more permits to be issued to the same
permittee.	The amount of the coverage to be provided by each policy required by
this subdivision shall not be less than $100,000, bodily injury or death to one
person, $300,000, bodily injury or death to two or more persons resulting from
any one occurrence, and $50,000 property damage, any one accident.	2.	In
addition to such policy of public liability insurance, the applicant shall post
or have on file with the Board a corporate surety bond in favor of the City of
Los Angeles in the sum of $10,000 to protect said City from any loss due to
damage to streets, sidewalks, curbs, traffic signals, street lights, public
utility installations or any other city-owned property of any nature or kind.
