                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

VIBROSEIS SURVEYS IN PUBLIC STREETS. (§ 62.97)

  VIBROSEIS SURVEYS IN PUBLIC STREETS.
	(Added by Ord. No. 160,459, Eff. 11/28/85.)	(a)	Issuance of Permits.  The
Board of Public Works may issue a permit for vibroseis surveys on public streets
when the Board determines that such activity will not interfere with the
public’s use of said street and this section has been complied with.	No
vibroseis survey shall be conducted on a public street without a current permit
issued by the Board of Public Works as provided in this section.	(b)	Application
for Permit.  Requests for vibroseis surveys shall be filed with the Board at
least thirty (30) days prior to the date requested for commencing
permit-authorized work. The Board, upon receipt of an application for permit,
shall give notice of the receipt thereof to the City Council office for each
Council district in which the applicant requests permission to conduct its
survey.	(c)	Permit Fee.  The issuance of a permit shall be subject to payment
of a permit fee plus a daily inspection fee assessable for each day the
operation is in progress. The permit fee and daily inspection fee advance
payment, based upon the applicant’s estimated number of days of operation,
shall be paid at the time the application is filed. The fees herein shall be
determined and adopted in the same manner as provided in Section 12.37I1 of the
Los Angeles Municipal Code for establishing fees.  (Amended by Ord. No.
165,675, Eff. 5/11/90.)	(d)	Conditions for Granting Permits.  The Board shall
adopt written procedures and conditions relating to but not limited to, the
requirements for liability insurance, citizen notification, restrictions on
hours and days of operation, and other conditions set forth in the Bureau of
Street Maintenance Report No. 1 adopted by the Board on September 24, 1984, a
copy of which is a part of Council File No. 85-0532.  (Amended by Ord. No.
160,496, Eff. 12/19/85.)	No permit shall issue unless the City Engineer has
first determined and so notified the Board in writing, that the route of the
vibroseis testing proposed in the application for permit does not contain
potentially unsound clay or concrete sewer pipes, however, in the event the City
Engineer cannot make such a determination, that office may recommend a
prescribed alternate route through the area where such testing will not
adversely affect such pipes, or, the Board may issue a permit on the condition
that:	1.	the permittee, prior to commencement of any such vibroseis work conduct
a television inspection of any pipes in question and deliver the results of that
inspection to the City Engineer;	2.	the condition of the pipes so inspected by
the permittee shall serve as a comparison basis for any similar television
inspection by the City Engineer made after completion of the operation to
ascertain whether the permittee’s operation has had any effect on the pipes;
and	3.	the permittee, prior to commencement of its operation, provides insurance
as prescribed by the Board, and also agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the
City from any adverse effects to any persons, to the pipes, or to any other
private or public property.	If the City Engineer does not make the necessary
route or alternate route determination or recommendations, or the applicant
fails or refuses to agree to television testing of potentially unsound pipes and
indemnification as provided hereinabove, no permit shall issue.
