                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PAINTING HOUSE NUMBERS ON CURBS – PERMIT REQUIRED. (§ 62.96)

  PAINTING HOUSE NUMBERS ON CURBS – PERMIT REQUIRED.
	(Added by Ord. No. 122,905, Eff. 10/26/62.)	(a)	No person shall paint, stencil
or affix, or cause to be painted, stenciled or affixed, any house or street
address number on any curb in or adjacent to any public street without first
having obtained a permit so to do from the Board.	(b)	No such permit shall be
issued until the applicant therefor shall have complied with the following
requirements:	1.	Application shall be made on forms provided therefor by the
Board and shall be accompanied by the payment of a fee. Said fee shall be
determined and adopted in the same manner as provided in Section 12.37I1 of the
Los Angeles Municipal Code for establishing fees. (Amended by Ord. No. 165,675,
Eff. 5/11/90.)	2.	The applicant shall file with the Board a policy of public
liability insurance in which the City has been named as insured or co-insured
with the permittee. The policy of insurance shall insure the City and its
officers and employees against all claims arising out of or in connection with
the issuance of the permit or the operation of the permittee or his agents or
contractors pursuant to the permit. The policy of insurance shall provide
coverage as follows:	Bodily Injury		$25,000 	each person
$50,000	each accident	Property Damage	$  5,000	each accident	3.	The applicant
shall post and maintain with the Board a surety bond in the amount of $500. Such
bond shall be executed to the satisfaction of the Board and shall be approved by
the City Attorney as to form and legality. Such bond shall be payable to the
City, shall be executed by a reliable surety company authorized to do business
in California and satisfactory to the City, and shall guarantee compliance with
the provisions of this section and all rules and regulations adopted by the
Board pursuant thereto.	EXCEPTION:  The provisions of this subsection shall not
apply to persons painting, stenciling or affixing house or street address
numbers upon curbs abutting their own property.	(c)	No person shall fail to keep
a copy of such permit upon his person and available for inspection at all times
while performing such work and no person shall represent in any way to the owner
or occupant of the premises in question or to anyone that the painting of such
numbers upon curbs or elsewhere is required by any law, rule or
regulation.	(d)	Any house or street address numbers which are painted, stenciled
or affixed to any curb pursuant to the provisions of this section shall consist
of black numerals not less than 2-1/2 inches, nor more than 4 inches in height
on a white background. First quality paint shall be used in all cases.	(e)	All
permits issued under the provisions of this section shall expire on the 31st day
of December following the date on which the permit was issued.	(f)	The Board may
adopt such reasonable rules and regulations in furtherance of the provisions of
this section as the Board shall determine are necessary, including but not
limited to rules regarding the work to be performed and the method and manner of
the solicitation for such work.	(g)	The Board may revoke or suspend any permit
issued under the provisions of this section upon the permittee’s violation of
or failure to comply with the provisions of this section or the rules and
regulations of the Board adopted hereunder or any other applicable law of this
City or State. Any such action shall be done in accordance with the provisions
of Section 22.02 of this Code.	(h)	Neither the City of Los Angeles nor any
Board, Commission, officer or employee thereof shall be liable or responsible
for any work done by any permittee under the provisions of this section, or by
any employee, agent or independent contractor of the City who paints over,
obliterates or removes any house or street address number upon any curb in the
course of establishing any official traffic control or street identification
sign, or in the process of repair or replacement of curbs.
