                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEFINITIONS. (§ 63.00)

  DEFINITIONS.

	For the purpose of this article the following words and phrases are defined,
and shall be construed as hereinafter set out, unless it shall be apparent from
the context that they have a different meaning.

	“Airport” shall mean the Los Angeles Airport.

	“Block” shall be that portion of any street between two cross streets or
between a cross street and an abutting street, or between two abutting streets.
In cases of abutting streets the prolongation of the center line of the abutting
street shall be the dividing line of the blocks, provided, however, that all
blocks exceeding 1000 feet in length shall be considered as two blocks.

	“Depth of the excavation” shall mean the difference in elevation between
the bottom of the excavation and the surface of the public or private property
in question.

	“Grant” shall include permits, concessions, licenses and leases.

	“Mean High Tide Line” shall mean the intersection of the sloping plane of
the beach, tideland or submerged land as said plane would exist under natural
conditions, with the horizontal plane defined as a level plane at all elevation
of 1.95 feet above the zero or datum plane.

	“Public beach lands and beach properties” shall not only include lands
heretofore and hereafter owned or controlled by the City adjoining the
waterfront of the Pacific Ocean, but also all tidelands and submerged lands,
whether filled or unfilled within the aforesaid area.

	“Public Library” shall include any room, building or structure where books
or works of literature or science are kept by the City for public use or
inspection, together with the real property upon which said room, building or
structure is located, together with such grounds surrounding the same which are
maintained by the City and all monuments, statues, equipment, plant or vegetable
life located on such grounds or in any such room, building or structure.

	“Public Parks” shall include all dedicated parks and all parkways and
triangles, maintained by the Board of Park Commissioners.
