                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

TRESPASSING FORBIDDEN UPON CERTAIN PUBLIC PLANTS, YARDS, ETC. (§ 63.130)

  TRESPASSING FORBIDDEN UPON CERTAIN PUBLIC PLANTS, YARDS, ETC.	(a)	Official
Permission Required.  It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to go upon any
premises operated by the Board of Public Works of this city as a street
maintenance yard, sewer maintenance yard, incinerator plant, dump, sewage
treatment plant, sewage pumping plant, refuse collection transfer yard,
equipment yard or storage yard, without the express permission of the Board of
Public Works, or its duly authorized representative. No person shall he deemed
to have such permission unless he has evidence thereof upon his person or unless
he has the express oral consent of the officer or employee present at, and in
immediate charge or care of, the premises.	The foregoing restriction shall not
apply to any premises not posted as hereinafter provided, nor shall it apply to
law enforcement officers, or to officers or employees of this City or of any
governmental agency acting in the course of their public duties.	(b)	Signs to be
Posted.  The Board of Public Works shall cause appropriate signs to be posted,
at intervals of not more than 200 feet, about the boundary of any such premises,
giving notice of the effect of this section.	(c)	Enforcement.  Any policeman or
any authorized employee of the Department of Public Works, may use reasonable
force to remove or expel from such premises any person who violates this section
and who upon being directed to leave refuses to do so. This is in addition to
other remedies provided by law.	(d)	Access for Lawful Purposes.  Subject to
fair and reasonable conditions, necessary access to any posted premises shall be
granted by the Board upon written request to any person having lawful business
there to perform; and to anyone who has, and asserts in good faith, the right to
inspect any such place for purposes incident to any proposed or pending action
at law or in equity; and to other persons at the reasonable discretion of the
Board, to be exercised in the public interest.	(e)	Premises Not Requiring
Protection.  Whenever the Board shall find, as to any particular premises
mentioned in this section, that there is no appreciable hazard of loss or damage
to public property at such place, or other public purpose to be subserved by
posting the same, it need not be posted, and, if not posted, the prohibitory
provisions of this section shall not there apply.
