                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

CITY VEHICLES – PRIVATE USE PROHIBITED. (§ 63.106)

  CITY VEHICLES – PRIVATE USE PROHIBITED.	(a)	It shall be unlawful for any
person to use or operate any unit of automotive equipment, or any automobile,
truck, or other motor vehicle owned by the City of Los Angeles for any purpose
other than for official business of the City of Los Angeles.	(b)	It shall be
unlawful for any person to use or operate any unit of automotive equipment,
automotive, truck, or other motor vehicle owned by the City of Los Angeles,
unless the riding in or upon the same is, necessary for the execution of
official business of the City of Los Angeles, and it shall be unlawful for the
operator of any of the foregoing equipment to permit, suffer or allow any person
to ride in or upon the same unless the riding in or upon the same by such person
is necessary for the execution of official business of the City of Los
Angeles.	(c)	The head of each department, respectively, shall cause to be placed
in each passenger vehicle and motor truck owned by this City and under the
control of his department, a metal sign permanently attached in full view of and
clearly legible to the driver and occupants of such vehicle, bearing the
following words:NOTICE	The use of or the riding in or upon this vehicle for any
purpose, other than for or upon official business of the City of Los Angeles, is
prohibited by law.	(d)	(Amended by Ord. No. 147,857, Eff. 12/20/75.) The
provisions of this section shall not apply:	1.	To motor vehicles assigned to the
Mayor, City Attorney, Controller and members of the City Council (Amended by
Ord. No. 173,299, Eff. 6/30/00, Oper. 7/1/00.), while such vehicles are being
operated within the boundaries of the County of Los Angeles.	2.	To van-type
motor vehicles used in connection with the Commute-A-Van program.
“Commute-A-Van program” shall refer to that program wherein City employees
are transported to work from their residences and returned thereto in van-type
motor vehicles, owned by the City of Los Angeles, for which service a monthly
fare is paid by each employee except the City employee designated to drive said
vehicle.
