                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

APPLICATION FOR GRANTS, CONTENTS. (§ 63.10)

  APPLICATION FOR GRANTS, CONTENTS.	All persons desiring a grant, permit or
license from the Department of Playground and Recreation to construct, maintain,
replace, repair or operate any groin, jetty, breakwater, sea wall, pipe line,
sewer, pier, wharf, building or other structure, other than public sewers and
public storm drains, in, on, or out from any of the area over which the
Department has or may acquire jurisdiction shall file with the Department of
Playground and Recreation a verified application in writing on blanks to be
furnished by said Department, which in addition to such other information as may
be required by the Department, shall contain the following:	1.	The true name and
correct residence address of the person making such application; and, if the
applicant is a corporation, the application shall be signed by the president and
secretary of the corporation and the corporate seal shall be attached
thereto;	2.	A statement showing whether a lease, concession, license or permit
is desired by the applicant;	3.	An express acknowledgment and stipulation that
the granting of any application by the Department of Playground and Recreation
shall not be construed as a recognition by or estoppel against the City that
title to the said lands is in the applicant or the owner named in said
application; and that said application shall only be considered as a matter of
record for said Department of the matters contained therein;	4.	An express
acknowledgment and stipulation that neither the applicant nor the City shall be
bound by or limited by virtue of the application from claiming more or less
lands than the amount thereof claimed in the application by reason of natural
accretions or natural changes or avulsions in the high tide lines, or by
mistake.	5.	Applicants must provide as a part of each application a map giving
the legal description, by bearings and distances of the upland or riparian
property front which, or upon which, said structure is proposed to be
constructed, maintained, repaired or operated. Said map and description shall
show in relation to the property so described the location of the 1.95 contour
Los Angeles City datum as found to exist at any certain time to be stated in the
application, by a survey made within thirty days of said
application.	6.	Applicants must submit, as a part of each application, a plan of
the proposed structure, giving the width, length, height and nature thereof, the
manner of the proposed construction of the same showing the spacing between
piers and piles and the size thereof, together with the materials to be used in
constructing the same, and the location and direction of the center line
thereof, by bearings and distances from the center line of some adjacent public
street or highway; provided, that all of said structure must lie within the
prolonged side lines of applicant’s property.
