                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

STREET ADDRESS NUMBERS – RESPONSIBILITY THEREFOR, DESIGNATION, LOCATION, SIZE,
MAINTENANCE, CHANGE AND REMOVAL. (§ 63.113)

  STREET ADDRESS NUMBERS – RESPONSIBILITY THEREFOR, DESIGNATION, LOCATION,
SIZE, MAINTENANCE, CHANGE AND REMOVAL.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 144,527, Eff. 4/19/73.)	(a)	Every person exercising or
having ownership, possession, custody, control, or charge of any building,
structure or parking lot shall have and maintain the established street address
number thereon upon or near each entrance from a street of the City, and from
any other public access way, in the manner and location designated by the City
Engineer. “Access way,” shall include, but not be limited to, any alley,
waterway, stairway, driveway or walkway. (Amended by Ord. No. 161,786, Eff.
1/9/87.)	(b)	Installation, change, substitution or removal of any existing or
subsequently-designated street address number shall be completed within five (5)
days after receipt by the owner, occupant, lessee, tenant, subtenant, fiduciary,
or custodian of such building, structure or parking lot, or any person or agent
in charge thereof, of a written notice containing appropriate instructions
therefor, from the City Engineer.	(c)	The minimum dimensions of any street
address number designated by the City Engineer on or after June 1, 1973, shall
be as follows:	i.	The height in inches of any number or figure therein shall be
the sum of one-tenth (1/10) of the distance in feet of the number from the
boundary of the property (upon which the building, structure or parking lot is
situated) abutting the street, plus two (2), providing that every number shall
not be less than four inches in height.	ii.	The overall width of any figure in
or comprising the number shall be one-half (1/2) of its height.	iii.	The width
of any portion of a figure in or comprising the number shall be one-tenth (1/10)
of its height.	(d)	Design (including shape and style) as well as location of the
street address numbers shall be such that they are legible and easily readable.
The City Engineer may prescribe a street address number larger in size than the
dimensions stated at Subparagraph (c) hereinabove when he determines that due to
lighting conditions, building locations, shadows, background, or other reasons,
street address numbers of minimum dimensions will not be easily readable from
the street or approach to the entrance. A street address number of unusual
design or placement may not be employed without prior written approval of the
City Engineer.	(e)	The City Engineer shall adopt such reasonable rules and
regulations as are necessary to implement the street address numbers provisions
of this article.
