                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

REGULATIONS AFFECTING PARK AND RECREATION AREAS. (§ 63.44)

  REGULATIONS AFFECTING PARK AND RECREATION AREAS.
	(Added by Ord. No. 153,027, Eff. 11/16/79.)	A.	Definitions:  As used in this
section:	“Beach” shall include public seashore and shoreline areas bordering
the Pacific Ocean that are owned, managed or controlled by the City.  (Added by
Ord. No. 163,039, Eff. 1/17/88.)	“Park” shall include every public park,
roadside rest area, playground, zoological garden, ocean, beach or other
recreational facility area, together with any parking lot, reservoir pier,
swimming pool, golf course, court, field, bridle path, trail, or other
recreational facility, or structure thereon, in the City of Los Angeles and
under the control, operation or management of the Board of Recreation and Park
Commissioners, the Los Angeles County Department of Parks and Recreation, the
Los Angeles County Department of Beaches, or the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum
Commission. “Park” does not include any State Historic Park located within
the City of Los Angeles.	“Board” shall mean the Board of Recreation and Park
Commissioners.	B.	Within the limits of any park or other City-owned Harbor
Department designated and controlled property within the City of Los Angeles: 
(Amended by Ord. No. 174,737, Eff. 9/9/02.)	1.	No person under the age of 18
years shall cause, permit or allow any ungelded equine animal to be present in
said park.	2.	(Amended by Ord. No. 160,401, Eff. 11/1/85.)  No person shall
cause, permit or allow any animal owned or possessed by him or any animal in his
care, custody or control to be present in said park except:	(a)	Equine animals
being led or ridden under reasonable control upon bridle paths or trails
provided for such purposes; or	(b)	Equine or other animals which are hitched or
fastened at a place expressly designated for such purposes; or	(c)	Dogs which
have been specially trained and are being used by blind or otherwise disabled
persons to aid and guide them in their movements.  (Amended by Ord. No.
172,088, Eff. 7/30/98.)	(d)	(Amended by Ord. No. 180,332, Eff. 12/16/08.) 
Licensed dogs or cats when led by a leash not more than six (6) feet long, or
when confined within the interior of a vehicle, or licensed dogs under the
control of a competent person in designated dog exercise and training areas
at:	(i)	City parks or portions of City parks approved and designated as dog
exercise and training areas by the Board of Recreation and Park Commissioners
and approved by the City Council by ordinance;	(ii)	Laurel Canyon Park from 7:00
a.m. to 10:00 a.m. and from 3:00 p.m. until park closing every day of the
week;	(iii)	Silver Lake Recreation Center, provided, however, that no dogs,
whether or not led by a leash, shall be permitted or allowed in any part of the
Silver Lake Recreation Center other than the fenced area designated as a dog
exercise and training area, except as permitted or allowed by Paragraph (c)
hereof;	(iv)	A portion of the Sepulveda Basin Recreation Area consisting of
approximately 10 acres and located on Victory Boulevard near White Oak Avenue,
which shall be open at sunrise and closed at sunset every day of the week;	(v)	A
portion of Runyon Canyon Park consisting of approximately 90 acres located
within the area 825 feet north of the Fuller Street entrance, 450 feet east of
the Vista Street entrance and 1,850 feet south of the Mulholland Drive
entrance.  The boundaries of the off-leash dog exercise area described in this
subparagraph shall be appropriately designated within the park.  A separate
portion of Runyon Canyon Park consisting of approximately 21,000 square feet
located between the Fuller Street and Vista Street entrances and enclosed by a
fence shall be designated a “no dogs or cats allowed” area and no dogs or
cats shall be permitted or allowed inside the designated fenced area whether on
or off leash;	(vi)	A portion of Barrington Park consisting of 1.4 acres as
designated on the site plan contained in Council File No. 02-0094 which shall be
appropriately designated within the park and enclosed by fencing as indicated on
the site plan.  No dogs, whether on or off leash, shall be permitted or allowed
in any area of Barrington Park other than the fenced area designated as an
off-leash dog exercise area, except as provided by Paragraph (c)
hereof;	(vii)	An enclosed portion of Knoll Hill consisting of approximately
three acres as designated on Knoll Hill by the Harbor Department;	(viii)	An
enclosed area consisting of approximately .84 acres, bounded by the Westminster
Senior Center parking lot on the west, Main Street on the east, Westminster
Avenue on the south and Clubhouse Avenue on the north, which shall be opened at
sunrise and closed at sunset every day of the week;	(ix)	A designated fenced
area consisting of approximately .86 acres in Hermon Park;	(x)	A designated area
consisting of approximately 1.6 acres at Griffith Park and located at the north
end of the John Ferraro Soccer Field on North Zoo Drive;	(xi)	A designated area
consisting of approximately 3 acres at Whitnall Park on Whitnall Highway in
North Hollywood, including a 50,000 square foot area for large dogs and a 22,500
square foot area for small dogs.	The exception to Subdivision 2. contained in
this Paragraph as it pertains to dogs shall not apply upon any boardwalk,
sidewalk or public way immediately adjacent to any beach lands or beach
properties adjoining the waterfront of the Pacific Ocean between the southerly
boundary of the City of Santa Monica and Washington Street in the City of Los
Angeles, between the hours of 11:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. on weekends and holidays
from Memorial Day through October 31, and no dogs shall be permitted within the
area during those times and days.	3.	[Suspended until further action by Ord. No.
176,929, Eff. 10/1/05.]  No person shall rent or offer for rent, or sell or
offer for sale any commercial merchandise, or any article or thing of any kind
or nature whatsoever; or practice, carry on, conduct or solicit any trade,
occupation, business, or profession, except by contract with the Board,
Department, Commission or their authorized representatives. Nothing in this
subdivision, however, shall prohibit the sale or offering for sale of
newspapers, periodicals, books, pamphlets and other forms of communication
except that said sale of offering for sale is prohibited in museums, in those
portions of a park to which access is restricted by the payment of an admission
fee or in those facilities which are operated under contract with the Board,
Department or Commission.  (Amended by Ord. No. 159,064, Eff. 7/16/84.)	4.	No
person shall play or utilize any sound amplifying system except within or upon
an area or facility set aside for such purpose by the Board, Department or
Commission. For the purposes of this and the next subdivision, “sound
amplifying system” shall mean and include any system of electrical hookup or
connection, loud speaker system or equipment, sound amplifying system, and any
apparatus, equipment, device, instrument, or machine designed for or intended to
be used for the purpose of amplifying the sound or increasing the volume of the
human voice, musical tone, vibration or sound wave. This subdivision shall not
apply to the regular and customary use of portable radios, televisions, record
players or tape recorders played or operated in such places and at such times so
as not to disturb other persons in their permitted uses of the park.	5.	No
person shall hold or conduct any musical event or concert in which any sound
amplifying system is utilized without first obtaining a written permit to do so
from the Board, Department or Commission. The application for such musical event
permit shall state:	The name of the person or persons applying for the permit;
the particular park and location therein at which the musical event is proposed
to take place; the date and time of the event; the number of persons who will
perform at such musical event; and the size of the expected audience. A written
permit for the musical event shall be issued upon reasonable terms and
conditions except when:	(a)	The location requested has been previously reserved
for the same date and time by another person or organization for a particular
activity; or	(b)	The size of the audience reasonably expected to attend the
musical event will exceed the capacity of the location requested.	6.	No person
shall play any musical instrument between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
within seven hundred and fifty (750) feet of any structure used for dwelling
purposes, except within or upon an area or facility set aside for this purpose
by the Board or Department. For purposes of this subdivision, the term
“musical instrument” includes but is not limited to drums and other
percussion devices.	7.	[Suspended until further action by Ord. No. 176,929, Eff.
10/1/05.]  No person shall use any area or facility set aside, used, maintained
or designated for a specific recreational or park purpose by the Board,
Department, Commission or Department of Beaches, which purpose is reasonably
apparent from the appearance, construction or designation of such facility or
area, or as to which reasonable notice of such designation or purpose is given
by signs posted thereon, for a purpose contrary to or inconsistent with such
specific or designated purpose.	8.	No person shall land, release, take off or
fly any balloon, except children toy balloons not inflated with any flammable
material, helicopter, parakite, hang glider, aircraft or powered models thereof,
except in areas specifically set aside therefor.	9.	No person shall engage in
any voluntary parachute jump.	10.	No person shall use any bow or crossbow, or
throw or release any arrows, except as specifically permitted in designated
archery areas.	11.	No person shall take, seize or hunt any bird, animal or fish
except that lost or escaped dogs, cats or horses may be searched for.	12.	No
person shall remove any wood, tree, shrub, plant, turf, grass, soil, rock, sand
or gravel.	13.	No person, without permission from the Board or the Department of
Recreation and Parks, shall cut, break, injure, tamper with, deface or disturb
any tree, shrub, plant, rock, building, cage, pen, monument, fence, bench,
structure, apparatus, equipment or property; or mark, paint, post or write upon
any building, monument, fence, bench or other structure.  (Amended by Ord. No.
168,219, Eff. 10/4/92.)	14.	(Amended by Ord. No. 164,209, Eff. 1/8/89.)	(a)	No
person shall enter, remain, stay or loiter in any park between the hours of
10:30 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. of the following day.  On any public park or
recreational facility subject to this section, the supervising employee at such
site may extend the 10:30 p.m. closing time for up to one and one-half hours to
accommodate any departmentally approved event, except for Griffith Park, for
which the supervising employee at such site may extend the 10:30 p.m. closing
time for up to only one hour to accommodate any departmentally approved event. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 180,461, Eff. 2/8/09.)	(b)	No person shall enter, remain,
stay or loiter in any park which consists of an ocean area, beach, or pier
between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 5:00 o’clock a.m. of the following
day; except that no person shall remain, stay or loiter on Royal Palms Beach
between the hours of 8:00 o’clock p.m. and 5:00 o’clock a.m. of the
following day. On any park which consists of an ocean area, beach, or pier
subject to this Section, the supervising employee at such site may extend the
12:00 midnight closing time, or in the case of Royal Palms Beach the 8:00
o’clock p.m. closing time, to accommodate special events such as grunion runs
and other events approved by the Department of Recreation and Parks or the Los
Angeles County Department of Beaches, as applicable.	(c)	No person shall enter,
remain, stay or loiter in any of the following parks or facilities between the
closing hour and the opening hour of the following day.  The closing and
opening hours for each of the following parks or facilities shall be as
follows:  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,153, Eff. 7/18/12.)	Bellevue Recreation
Center – closed at 10:00 p.m., open at 5:00 a.m.	Cabrillo Beach pay Parking
Lot (Port parking section) – closed at 10:30 p.m., open at 3:00 a.m.	Elysian
Park – closed at 9:00 p.m. (except for two parking lots adjacent to it, which
shall close at 10:30 p.m.), open at 5:00 a.m.	Stoner Skate Plaza – closed at
7:00 p.m., open at 10:00 a.m. Monday through Sunday during Daylight-Savings
Time, and closed at 5:00 p.m., open at 10:00 a.m. Monday through Sunday during
Non-Daylight Savings Time.	Closed one hour after Sunset, open one hour before
Sunrise:
	Dearborn Park
	Ernest E. Debs Regional Park (except to open no earlier than 5:30 a.m.)
	Hansen Dam Recreation Center
	Runyon Canyon Park
	Telfair Park	Closed at Sunset, open at Sunrise:
	Abbott Kenney Park
	Bell Canyon Park
	Carey Ranch Park
	Chase Street Park
	Deervale Park
	Del Rey Lagoon
	El Escorpian Canyon Park
	Erwin Street Park
	Hansen Dam Recreational Lake
	Harold Henry Park
	Jesse Owens Park
	Kagel Canyon Park
	Ken Malloy Harbor Regional Park (except the northern end of the park, as
designated by appropriate signage, which shall close at 4:00 p.m. and open at
10:00 a.m.)
	Knapp Ranch Park Annex
	Liemert Plaza
	Linnie Canal Park
	Orcas Park
	Orcutt Ranch
	Pacific Palisades Park:  (portions near Via De Las Olas and near Mount
Holyoak, as designated by appropriate signage)
	Porter Ranch Subparks:  (Palisades Bridle Trails, Wilbur-Tampa, Eddleston,
Limekiln Canyon, Porter Ridge, and Viking)
	Richardson Family Park
	Robert Burns Park
	San Pascual Park
	Sepulveda Basin Recreation Area Facilities:  (Woodley Flight Field, Sepulveda
Wildlife Reserve, the North Parking Lot of Balboa Park, Lake Balboa Park,
Off-Leash Dog Exercise Area)
	South Weddington Park
	Stoney Point Park
	Valley Plaza Park:  (Laurel Grove and Whitsett Sections)
	Villa Cabrini Park
	Yucca Mini Park	15.	No person shall ride or pull any horsedrawn vehicle on
bridle trails or other areas except as specifically provided for such purposes
by the Board.	16.	No person shall drive or ride any cycle or vehicle, whether
powered by a motor or human power, except on paths, roads or drives designed and
provided for such purposes.	17.	No person shall make or kindle a fire or cook
food, except on a stove or masonry or concrete hearth or fire circle provided
for such purpose, or on a portable stove or hearth of an approved type and in
areas specifically posted for such use.	18.	No person shall erect any barrier or
lay, string or join any wires, ropes, chains or place any obstruction on or
across any path, trail or area where the public may be expect to make contact
with such barrier, wire, rope or chain.	19.	No person shall throw, discard or
deposit any paper, rubbish, debris, ashes, dirt, bottles, cans, trash or litter
of any kind or nature whatsoever, except in receptacles specifically provided
therefor.	20.	No person shall appear, bathe, sunbathe, walk or be in any public
park, playground, beach or the waters adjacent thereto, in such a manner that
the genitals, vulva, pubis, pubic symphysis, pubic hair, buttock, natal cleft,
perineum, anus, anal region, or pubic hair region of any such person, or any
portion of the breast at or below the upper edge of the areola thereof of any
such female person, is exposed to public view or is not covered by an opaque
covering.	(a)	This subdivision shall not apply to children under the age of 10
years.	(b)	This subdivision shall not apply to live theatrical performances
performed in a theater, concert hall, or other similar establishment located on
public land.	21.	No person shall carry or discharge any firearms, firecrackers,
fireworks, rockets, model rockets, torpedoes, airgun or
slingshot.	22.	[Suspended until further action by Ord. No. 176,929, Eff.
10/1/05.]  No person shall assemble, collect or gather together in any walk,
driveway, passageway or pathway in any park or in other places set apart for the
travel of persons or vehicles in or through any park or occupy the same so that
the free passage or use thereof by persons or vehicles passing along the same
shall be obstructed in any manner.	23.	[Suspended until further action by Ord.
No. 176,929, Eff. 10/1/05.]  No person, without permission from the Board or
the Department of Recreation and Parks, shall distribute, display, circulate,
post, place or erect any bills, notice, paper, or advertising device or matter
of a commercial nature.  (First para. Amended by Ord. No. 168,219, Eff.
10/4/92.)	(a)	Nothing contained herein shall be construed to prohibit sport
organizations qualified as nonprofit organizations under State and federal tax
laws pursuant to written permit from the Board, from posting and maintaining
signs at sport fields where such organizations conduct a sport recreation
program or programs acknowledging the sponsorship of such organizations by
firms, businesses, or individuals; provided that as to any location where the
Board authorizes such signs to be posted the following conditions are
met:	(1)	The sole or primary purpose of the nonprofit sport organization is to
conduct a sport recreation program or programs at the sport field
involved.	(2)	The nonprofit sport organization is required to maintain the sport
field involved at its own cost and expense.	(3)	Such signs are posted only
during the playing season for that particular sport each year and only for the
shorter of either the duration of the season or the period of time that the
non-profit sport organization operates that season’s program at that facility,
and not at any other time.	(4)	The proceeds derived from the sponsorships
acknowledged by such signs are expended solely for the maintenance of the sport
field involved; except that any surplus after meeting such expenses may be
expended to meet the expenses incurred by the non-profit organization in
conducting the recreation program or programs at that facility.	(5)	The signs
are placed only on the perimeter fence of the field, are one-sided, facing the
spectator area of the field, and are of a size, number and design as specified
by the Board.	(6)	Each such sign identifies the sponsor as well as the
non-profit organization and contains a statement declaring such sponsorship or
support.	(b)	Nothing contained herein shall be construed to prohibit the County
of Los Angeles from conducting a Marketing Program on those beaches which are
the subject of that certain “Joint Powers Agreement Between the City of Los
Angeles and the County of Los Angeles Providing for Lifeguard and Maintenance
Services to be Rendered by the County on Beaches Located Within the City”
dated May 20, 1975, as amended. The term “Marketing Program” is defined to
mean a program whereby the County grants third parties limited advertising
rights on the beaches, such as the right to display name or product
identification on lifeguard towers, trucks, uniforms, rescue boats, lifeguard
equipment, public restrooms, fences, concession buildings, parking lot receipts
and other beach facilities, in exchange for financial support in the form of
money, equipment or services to be used in performing the obligations assumed by
the County in the Agreement. Provided, however, that any such name and product
identification shall not directly solicit the sale, use or consumption of any
product; that the County shall not permit name and product identification of
alcoholic beverage or tobacco products; and that the County shall not display
the name of any marketing program sponsor or donor, or of their products on the
beaches in any manner other than as is described in this subsection without the
prior written approval from the Board. Additionally, such Marketing Program
shall be subject to all of the restrictions set forth in Section 2.116.210 of
the Administrative Code of the County of Los Angeles, which is incorporated
herein by reference as amended from time-to-time.	24.	(Added by Ord. No.
179,058, Eff. 9/18/07.)  No person, except as provided here, shall light,
ignite, or otherwise set fire to, or smoke, carry, throw or discard any lighted
tobacco products, including cigarettes, cigars or smoking tobacco.  For
purposes of this subdivision, “smoke” and “smoking” shall include the
carrying or holding of a lighted pipe, cigar or cigarette of any kind, or any
other lighted smoking equipment or the emitting or exhaling the smoke of a pipe,
cigar, cigarette or any other smoking equipment.  No person shall discard,
dispose of, or deposit any tobacco product, including cigarette and cigar butts
and ashes, except in approved containers specifically placed and designated for
receipt of trash, refuse, rubbish, litter or other kind of waste materials. 
The Department shall post and maintain “No Smoking” signs in conspicuous
locations.  All these signs shall clearly and conspicuously recite the phrase
“NO SMOKING” and/or use the international no-smoking symbol and shall cite
this subdivision of Section 63.44 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.  A
violation of this subdivision shall be punishable as an infraction.	Smoking is
permitted in the following areas: 	(1)	City golf courses, except for the
following courses where smoking is only allowed in designated areas and not in
all areas of the course:	(a)	Roosevelt Golf Course	(b)	Wilson Golf
Course	(c)	Harding Golf Course	(d)	Tregnan Golf Academy 	(2)	Those areas within
parks that are specified in a permit issued by the Recreation and Parks Film
Office authorizing smoking for filming purposes only and by actors only;
and	(3)	Designated smoking areas at the Autry National Center, the Greek
Theater, and the Los Angeles Zoo.	C.	The Board is hereby authorized to designate
particular park roads for commercial trucks and vehicles for park purposes
only.  No such truck or vehicle carrying any article for trade or commerce
shall drive upon any park road except as may be specifically provided or
designated for such use.  The 1.5 mile walkway surrounding Lake Balboa in Lake
Balboa Park shall be designated as a “pedestrian walk only.”  No person
shall roller blade, roller skate, skate board, or ride or drive any bicycle,
scooter or similar vehicle upon the designated walkway.  (Amended by Ord. No.
169,113, Eff. 12/4/93.)	D.	Within the limits of any park other than beaches, no
person shall:	1.	Swim, bathe, wade in or pollute the water of any park, fountain
pond, lake or stream, except as permitted by the Board or its authorized
representative.	2.	Enter any municipal swimming pool or dressing room therein at
any time when a life guard or dressing room attendant is not present.	3.	Roller
skate, board skate, or ride or drive any bicycle, scooter, or similar vehicle on
the decks surrounding a swimming pool or on tennis courts.	4.	Camp in a City
park, except in locations designated for such purposes, or erect, maintain, use
or occupy any Tent, excluding Umbrellas or Sun Shades.  (Amended by Ord. No.
182,153, Eff. 7/18/12.)	(a)	Definitions:  For purposes of this Subdivision, the
following words or phrases shall mean:	(i)	“Camp” means to erect, maintain
or occupy a Camp Facility for any purpose, including lodging or living
accommodation.	(ii)	“Camp Facility” means one or more of the following:  a
Tent, hut, other temporary physical shelter, cot, bed, sleeping bag, hammock or
bedroll, erected, maintained or used for lodging or living accommodation.  The
recreational use of a sleeping bag or bedroll that is removed from the park upon
closing and not used to Camp is not considered a camp facility.	(iii)	“Tent”
means shelter or structure that is not entirely open and which lacks an
unobstructed view into the Tent, shelter or structure from the
outside.	(iv)	“Umbrella or Sun Shade” means any canopy or cover that is open
on all sides, consists of pliable tent-like material such as canvas, nylon or
other synthetic fabric, and that is held aloft by one or more supporting metal,
plastic, or wooden poles.  No Umbrella or Sun Shade shall exceed eight feet in
height and ten feet in diameter or width.  All Umbrellas or Sun Shades shall be
dismantled and removed from the park before the park is closed.	5.	Operate a
boat on any pond, lake or waters therein, except as permitted by the Board or
its authorized representative.	E.	No parent, guardian, or person having the
custody of any child under the age of eight (8) years shall cause, permit or
allow such child to enter or visit any park, other than beaches, having a lake,
pond, stream or swimming pool within its boundaries, unless such child is
accompanied by a person of not less than sixteen (16) years of age.	F.	No person
over eight (8) years of age shall enter or use any restroom in a park designated
for persons of the other sex.	G.	Every person shall comply with rules
promulgated by the Board for the use of golf courses, tennis courts, and dog
parks, which rules shall be conspicuously posted at each golf course, tennis
court, and dog park.  (Amended by Ord. No. 180,332, Eff. 12/16/08.)	H.	In parks
consisting of beaches and water recreation areas, the Board or the Director of
Beaches is hereby empowered and authorized to establish in and upon the beaches
and water recreation areas water activity zones restricted as to the following
uses:	1.	Bathing and Swimming Zones – No person shall use, possess or operate
in the waters of the Pacific Ocean opposite any beach regulated by this section
any object commonly known as a surfboard, paddleboard or similar device (but not
including surfmats which are made of a nonrigid material with a non-slippery
surface, so constructed that when inflated for use it will not fold in any
direction between twenty-four (24) and thirty (30) inches in width and forty
(40) to sixty (60) inches in length, and equipped with a safety rope, and belly
boards) at such times and in such zone when said waters are restricted for
swimming and bathing only.	Such restrictions shall be effective when a yellow
flag having dimensions of not less than two feet by two feet and having a solid
black circle in the center (commonly known as a “blackball flag”) is
prominently displayed from a lifeguard tower, lifeguard station, pier or similar
structure under the control of the Department of Beaches.	At such times as the
blackball flag is displayed, swimming and bathing only shall be permitted in the
waters of the Pacific Ocean opposite those areas of the beach within 200 yards
of the point of display of said blackball flag, provided, however, that where
said blackball flag is displayed from consecutive operational lifeguard towers,
lifeguard stations and similar structures under the control of the Department of
Beaches along a beach regulated by this article then all waters of the Pacific
Ocean opposite said beach shall be restricted to swimming and bathing only.	Such
restrictions shall also be indicated by pairs of red flags put in place by the
Director of Beaches or his authorized employee. At such times as said red flags
are displayed, swimming and bathing only shall be permitted in the waters of the
Pacific Ocean opposite those areas of the beach lying between a given pair of
such red flags.	2.	Surfboards Zone – Notwithstanding any other provision of
this section, the Director of Beaches may from time to time designate certain
areas to be used exclusively by persons using surfboards and paddleboards. Such
designation may be revoked at any time and the area covered by any such
designation may be enlarged or reduced at any time. A person shall not swim or
bathe in the waters of the Pacific Ocean included in an area so designated
except while using a surfboard or paddleboard or as is necessary in order to use
a surfboard or paddleboard.	I.	Within the limits of parks consisting of beaches
and water recreation areas:	1.	No person shall surf by board or engage in
bathing or swimming activities in any area posted as closed.	2.	No person shall
bathe, swim, surf by board or operate any boat or other device in, or upon,
water in violation of any authorized warning signal or device. Any person in
violation of any warning signal or device or in violation of any Bathing and
Swimming Zone or Surfboard Zone restriction shall not fail, refuse or neglect to
leave the waters of the Pacific Ocean opposite any beach regulated by this
section.	3.	No person shall engage in the sport commonly known as aquaplaning,
water skiing, or any derivation thereof unless such activities are permitted by
conspicuously posted signs at appropriate places upon the beach and lands
abutting and adjacent thereto.	4.	No person shall use any spear gun on any beach
or in any waters within one thousand (1,000) feet of shore unless otherwise
specifically permitted in posted areas.	5.	No person shall operate a boat within
one hundred (100) feet of any bather or swimmer, or within two hundred (200)
feet of a beach used by bathers or swimmers.	6.	No person shall beach or launch
any boat, except at a place designated for such purposes. The Board or the
Director of Beaches may designate any beach area or portions thereof as an area
which may be used for the purpose of beaching or launching boats.	7.	No person
shall use, possess or operate any object commonly known as a surfmat,
paddleboard, bellyboard, surfboard, or similar device except within 200 yards
from shore or 75 yards seaward of the point at which the average wave breaking,
whichever distance is greater, or when used by a skin diver to hold his or her
flag.	8.	No person shall bring or permit or allow in the waters of the Pacific
Ocean opposite any beach regulated by this section any object commonly known as,
or used as, a paddleboard or surfboard, within 100 feet of any person in the
waters thereof who was not at the time using or possessing a similar
object.	9.	(Amended by Ord. No. 163,039, Eff. 1/17/88.)  No person shall erect,
maintain, use, or occupy on any beach, any tent, lodge, shelter, or structure
that has more than two sides closed. Any such tent, lodge, shelter or structure
shall otherwise be entirely open and there shall be an unobstructed view into
such tent, lodge, shelter or structure from the outside except for the two
closed sides. If the tent, lodge, shelter or structure is other than rectangular
in shape, no more than one-third of the outside thereof shall be closed and
there shall otherwise be an unobstructed view into it. Any tent, lodge, shelter
or structure erected, maintained, used or occupied on a beach shall consist of
pliable, tent-like materials such as canvas, nylon or pliable synthetic
material.	In no event shall any such tent, lodge, shelter or structure be
erected or maintained closer than fifty (50) feet from any other tent, lodge,
shelter or structure.	Any such tent, lodge, shelter or structure shall be
dismantled and removed from the beach each day and no part thereof shall remain
overnight.	No person shall fasten or maintain any guy wire, guy rope or exterior
bracing or support of any tent, lodge, shelter or structure between it or any
portion thereof, and any structure, stake, rock or thing outside of such tent,
lodge, shelter or structure.	10.	(Added by Ord. No. 163,039, Eff. 1/17/88.)  No
person shall enter, be, or remain on any beach area unless that person complies
with all regulations applicable to that beach and with all other applicable
ordinances, rules and regulations.	11.	(Added by Ord. No. 163,039, Eff.
1/17/88.)  A person exercising any of the privileges authorized by this section
does so at that person’s own risk without liability on the part of the City
for any injury to person or property resulting therefrom.	12.	(Added by Ord. No.
163,039, Eff. 1/17/88.)  Except as otherwise provided in this section or as
authorized by the Board, no person shall camp on or use for overnight sleeping
purposes any beach, or bring a housetrailer, camper or similar vehicle onto any
beach.	13.	(Repealed by Ord. No. 179,058, Eff. 9/18/07.)	J.	Within the limits of
any park containing a fishing pier:	1.	No person shall operate any vehicle on a
fishing pier, except as permitted by the Board or its authorized
representative.	2.	No person shall ride a bicycle, scooter, skate, skateboard,
or other wheeled device on any pier. Subdivisions 1 and 2 of this subsection
shall not apply to the use of wheelchairs by persons whose physical condition
necessitates such use.	3.	No person shall dive or jump, or cause another to
fall, dive or jump from a pier, or climb or be on the outside of the railing of
a pier except:	(a)	members of the lifeguard service of the Department of Beaches
or any other person as may be delegated by the lifeguard service or any of its
personnel to assist them in rescuing or saving lives;	(b)	members of the
lifeguard service during the course of drills and training;	(c)	authorized
persons involved in the maintenance, repair or construction of the pier or a
part thereof; or	(d)	as a participant in an aquatic event or activity which is
approved and authorized by the Director of Beaches.	4.	No person shall swim,
operate or otherwise use a surfboard, skindive or use self-contained underwater
breathing apparatus within an area described as one hundred (100) feet of either
side of the pier except for purposes otherwise authorized by this article.	5.	No
person shall climb or crawl on the pier railings, pilings or under
structures.	6.	No person shall do any overhead casting or allow any fishing lure
or hook to pass inboard of the pier railing while casting.	7.	No person shall
clean any fish except at locations provided for that purpose.	8.	No person shall
use more than one pole or drop line at any one time.	9.	No person shall fish or
trap sea life for commercial purposes.	10.	No person shall use any fishing spear
or spear gun.	K.	Within the limits of any parking lot located within the limits
of any park:	1.	No person shall drive a vehicle onto any public parking lot
without paying the posted fee to the attendant on duty thereon or by paying the
metered fee.	2.	No person shall stand or park any vehicle on any metered or
unmetered public parking lot between the hours of 10:30 o’clock p.m. and 5:00
o’clock a.m. of the following day or such other hours as the Council may
establish for each public parking lot by ordinance, whether said vehicle is
occupied or unoccupied.  Provided, however, that within the limits of parks
consisting of ocean areas, beaches or piers, no person shall stand or park any
vehicle on any metered or unmetered public parking lot between the hours of
12:00 midnight and 5:00 o’clock a.m. of the following day or such other hours
as the Council may establish for each such parking lot by ordinance.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 164,209, Eff. 1/8/89.)	3.	No person shall refuse to exhibit upon
demand of any attendant the driver or operator’s portion of a parking ticket
when the driver or operator of any vehicle that is standing, parked or being
operated on any unmetered parking lot has been issued a numbered parking
ticket.	4.	No person shall remove the identifying portion of a parking ticket
from any vehicle while on such parking lot.	5.	No person shall drive a vehicle
onto any public parking lot through a driveway posted with a sign stating “Do
Not Enter”.	6.	No person shall remove an automobile from  public parking lot
except through a gateway or driveway marked “Exit”.	7.	No person shall park
in a parking lot, except entirely within a space indicated by painted lines,
said spaces being commonly referred to as a “parking slot” or “parking
stall”.	8.	No person shall park where there is posted a “No Parking”
sign.	9.	No person shall drive a truck of more than one (1) ton capacity on any
public parking lot.	10.	No person shall drive a motor vehicle upon any public
parking lot at a speed greater than ten (10) miles per hour, unless otherwise
posted.	11.	No person shall drive a vehicle in excess of the posted speed
limit.	12.	No person shall teach another person to drive a motor vehicle or use
such parking lot for driving practice.	13.	The provisions of Subdivisions 2.,7.,
and 8. of Subsection K. shall be enforced by civil penalty in the same manner as
the provisions of Section 80.76.2 of this Code.  (Added by Ord. No. 168,782,
Eff. 7/12/93.)	L.	Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 63.44 K.2., where a
parking lot is located within any park, including those consisting of beach and
water recreation areas, the Director of Beaches, or the Board in the event the
City exercises management and control over such park, may post or cause to be
posted a sign at the entrance to such parking lot indicating that the lot is
closed to public parking at an hour earlier than 1:00 a.m. or later that 3:00
a.m. When such sign is posted, no person shall stand or park an occupied or
unoccupied vehicle within the parking lot during the hours wherein parking is
prohibited. Any vehicle parked in violation of the provisions of this subsection
may be removed from such parking lot in accordance with the provisions of the
Vehicle Code of the State of California.  (Amended by Ord. No. 164,209, Eff.
1/8/89.)	M.	Within the limit of any zoological garden located within a public
park, no person other than authorized City employees shall:	1.	Feed or throw
food to any animal located therein, except in that area of the Children’s Zoo
so designated, approved food may be fed to animals located therein.	2.	Harass,
tease or annoy any animal by means of gestures, movements, throwing of objects,
shouting or by any other means.	3.	Have within their possession any cans,
bottles, skateboards, bats, balls, a knife with a blade longer than three (3)
inches, or any other objects which are capable of being thrown at or otherwise
used to harm any animal.	N.	(New Subsec. N. Added by Ord. No. 173,878, Eff.
4/12/01.)  Within the limit of any park or portion thereof designated by the
Board as a skateboard facility, whether the facility is supervised or
unsupervised:	1.	No person shall ride a skateboard unless that person is wearing
a helmet, elbow pads and knee pads.	2.	No person shall ride a bicycle or scooter
in the skating area.	3.	The opening and closing hours of the park shall be 12:00
noon to sunset on Monday through Friday, and 9:00 a.m. to sunset on Saturdays,
Sundays and holidays; however, skate parks shall also be closed during periods
of wet weather or when conditions, such as wet weather, make it unsafe to
skate.	4.	The Board shall cause signs to be posted at all skateboard facilities
providing reasonable notice that any person riding a skateboard at the facility
must wear a helmet, elbow pads and knee pads while skateboarding; that no
bicycles or scooters are allowed in the skating area; that the park hours are
12:00 noon to sunset Monday through Friday and 9:00 a.m. to sunset on Saturday,
Sunday and holidays;  that the park will be closed during periods of wet
weather or when conditions make it unsafe to skate; and, that any person in
violation of this ordinance will be subject to citation for violation
thereof.	O.	(New Subsec. O. Added by Ord. No. 173,922, Eff. 5/28/01.)  Within
the limit of any park consisting of beach lands or beach properties adjoining
the waterfront of the Pacific Ocean between the southerly boundary of the City
of Santa Monica and Washington Street in the City of Los Angeles:	1.	No person
shall operate a motorized scooter on any boardwalk, sidewalk, bike path or other
public way.  For the purpose of this subsection, the term “motorized
scooter” shall mean any two-wheeled device that has handlebars, is designed to
be stood or sat upon by the operator, and is powered by an electric motor that
is capable of propelling the device with or without human propulsion, excluding
motorcycles (as defined in Vehicle Code Section 400), motor-driven cycles (as
defined in Vehicle Code Section 405), motorized bicycles or mopeds (as defined
in Vehicle Code Section 406) and a toy (as defined in Health and Safety Code
Section 108550).  A device meeting the above definition that is powered by a
source other than electrical power is also a motorized scooter.	P.	(New Subsec.
P. Added by Ord. No. 179,129, Eff. 8/28/07.)  Within the limit of any park
designated by this subsection as being in a high fire hazard zone and between
April 1 and November 1 of each year:	1.	Notwithstanding any other provision of
this Code, no person shall light, ignite, set fire to, or burn any substance, or
maintain an open flame of any kind for any purpose, including but not limited to
cooking and barbecuing, except in areas specifically designated and posted to
allow open flames.	2.	The Department shall post and maintain “No Open Flame”
signs in conspicuous locations.  These signs shall clearly and conspicuously
recite the phrase “NO OPEN FLAMES BETWEEN APRIL 1 AND NOVEMBER 1&#038;″ and
shall cite this subdivision of Section 63.44 of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code.  The General Manager of the Department shall be authorized when fire
hazardous conditions are present, to extend the period during which open flames
are prohibited in parks designated by this subdivision; provided, if open flames
are prohibited prior to April 1 or after November 1, the Department shall modify
the signs required by this subdivision to provide notice of the dates that open
flames are prohibited.	3.	The following parks are located in a high fire hazard
zone:	Andres Pico Adobe Park
	Aliso Canyon Park
	Aliso Triangle
	Alizondo Drive Park
	Angels Gate Park
	Angels Point
	Ascot Hills Park
	Averill Park
	Bandini Canyon Park
	Barnsdall Art Park
	Bee Canyon
	Bell Canyon
	Bell Canyon Park
	Beverly Glen Park
	Bogdanovich Park
	Brand Park
	Briarwood Park
	Bronson Canyon
	Browns Creek Park
	Carey Ranch
	Carlin G. Smith
	Castle Peak Park
	Chase Park
	Chatsworth Oaks Park
	Chatsworth Park North
	Chatsworth Park South
	Cleland Avenue Bicentennial Park
	Coldwater Canyon Park
	Crestwood Hills Park
	De Neve Square Park
	Decker Canyon Camp
	Deervale-Stone Canyon Park
	Eddleston Park
	El Escorpion Canyon
	El Sereno North Park
	El Sereno Park
	Elysian Park – All Areas
	Elysian Therapeutic Recreational Center
	Ernest E. Debs Regional Park
	Facility Site House
	Fehlhaber-Houk Park
	Ferraro Sports Complex
	Fryman Canyon
	Glassell Park Recreation Center
	Grace E. Simons Lodge
	Griffith Park – All Areas
	Haines Canyon Park
	Hansen Dam Golf Course
	Hansen Dam Recreation Area
	Harbor Regional
	Heritage Square
	Hermon Park
	Hill-Palmer House
	Holleigh Bernson Memorial Park
	Knapp Ranch Park 
	Knapp Ranch Park West
	La Tuna Canyon
	Lake Hollywood Park
	Lake View Terrace Park
	Laurel Canyon Dog Park
	Laurel Canyon Park
	Lazy J Ranch Park
	Leland Park
	Lilac Terrace Park
	Limekiln Canyon
	Los Angeles Zoo
	Los Feliz Pitch &#038; Putt Golf Course
	Mae Boyar Park
	Mandeville Canyon Park
	McGroarty Park
	Moon Canyon Park
	Moonshine Canyon Park
	Mt. Olympus
	Mulholland View Site #16
	Norman O. Houston Park
	O’Melveny Park
	Orcas/Gabrieleno Equestrian Park
	Orcutt Ranch Horticultural Center
	Oro Vista Park
	Palisades Park
	Palisades Recreation Center
	Palisades Slide Area
	Palisades-Asilomar Park
	Pasko Park
	Peck Park
	Pilsn Property
	Porter Ranch Park
	Porter Ridge Park
	Potrero Canyon Park
	Pueblo de Rio Park
	Rena Park
	Reseda/Rinaldi Park
	Richard Alatorre Park
	Rivas Canyon Park
	Roger Jessup Park
	Roosevelt Golf Course
	Runyon Canyon
	Rustic Canyon
	San Vicente Mountain Park
	Santa Ynez Canyon
	Sepulveda Basin Recreation Area
	Serrania Ave Park
	Shadow Ranch Recreation Center
	Stetson Ranch Equestrian Park
	Stoney Point Park
	Sullivan Canyon Park
	Taxco Trails Park
	Temescal Canyon Park
	The Homestead Acre/
	Tregnan Golf Academy
	Vanalden Park
	Verdugo Mountain Park
	Via De Las Olas Park
	Viking Park
	Villa Cabrini Park
	Warner Center Park
	Wattles Garden Park
	West Hills Park
	White’s Point Nature Preserve
	Wilacre Park
	Wilbur-Tampa Park
	Wilder’s Addition (Point Fermin Park)
	Wilson/Harding Municipal Golf Course
	Woodbine Park
	Woodland Hills Park
	Zelzah Park	Q.	The provisions of this section shall not prevent nor be
construed to limit or prohibit any duly authorized departmental officer, agent
or employee, or any duly authorized peace officer, from performing any act
within the scope of his official duties.  (Subsec. N. Redesignated Subsec. O.
by Ord. No. 173,878, Eff. 4/12/01; Subsec. O. Redesignated Subsec. P. by Ord.
No. 173,922, Eff. 5/28/01; Subsec. P. Redesignated Subsec. Q. by Ord. No.
179,129, Eff. 8/28/07.)
