                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

CHARGES FOR HANDLING AVIATION ENGINEFUELS, LUBRICANTS AND SOLVENTS AT LOS
ANGELES INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT. (§ 63.92.1)

  CHARGES FOR HANDLING AVIATION ENGINE  FUELS, LUBRICANTS AND SOLVENTS AT LOS
ANGELES INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT.
	(Title Amended by Ord. No. 173,292, Eff. 6/30/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)	(a)	Rates
Established.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,292, Eff. 6/30/00, Oper. 7/1/00.) 
Every person who stores, withdraws, handles, transports or delivers aviation
engine fuels, lubricants and solvents at the Los Angeles  International Airport
shall pay to the City of Los Angeles, for the  privilege of storing, handling,
withdrawing, transporting or delivering aviation engine fuels, lubricants or
solvents at the Los Angeles  International Airport, the following
charges:	1.	One and one-tenth cent per gallon for aviation engine fuels;	2.	Five
and one-half cents per gallon for aviation lubricants;	3.	.275 cents per pound
for aviation solvents.	(b)	Permit Required.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173,292, Eff.
6/30/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  It shall be unlawful for any person to take or convey
any aviation engine fuels, lubricants or solvents into the boundaries of the Los
Angeles International Airport for the purpose of storing, withdrawing, handling,
transporting of delivering the same therein without a permit from the Board of
Airport Commissioners or the General Manager therefor.  Every such person
taking or conveying such products into the boundaries of said Airport shall
immediately notify the General Manager of that fact; stating the quantity of
such products and thereupon the General Manager shall forthwith collect the
charges hereinabove fixed, provided, however, that the said General Manager may,
in his or her discretion, defer the  immediate collection of such charges so as
to collect during one calendar month for all quantities of such products taken
or conveyed into the boundaries of said Airport by any person during the
previous calendar month.	(c)	Exceptions.  The terms of this ordinance shall not
apply to lessees of portions of the Airport who are paying a rental to the City
of Los Angeles for the privilege of selling such products within the boundaries
of the Airport based upon the quantity of such products thus sold in so far as
such products thus sold have been taken into consideration in determining such
rental. The terms of this section shall likewise not apply to the delivery of
such products to any lessee of a portion of the Airport or of the right to use
the same, whose lease provides that the lessee may supply his own equipment with
such products without the imposition of such charges either against the lessee
or his suppliers of such products.	(d)	Disposition of Proceeds.  All funds
collected under the terms of this section shall be paid into and become a part
of the Airport Revenue Fund.
