                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEFINITIONS AND ABBREVIATIONS. (§ 64.00)

  DEFINITIONS AND ABBREVIATIONS.
	(Amended In Entirety by Ord. No. 173,980, Eff. 7/1/01.)

	A.	Definitions.  For the purpose of this article, the following words and
phrases are defined and shall be construed as hereinafter set out, unless it
shall be apparent from the context that they have a different meaning:

	1.	Act shall mean the Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1972, also known
as the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. 1251, et seq.

	2.	Approval Authority shall mean the California State Water Resources Control
Board upon an approval of the State Pretreatment Program, or the Administrator
of the Environmental Protection Agency without an Approved State Pretreatment
Program.

	3.	Authorized Representative shall mean the following:

	(a)	a president, secretary, treasurer, or vice-president in charge of a
principal business function, or any other person who performs similar policy or
decision-making functions, if the discharger is a corporation;

	(b)	the manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or operation
facilities employing more than 250 persons or having gross annual sales or
expenditures exceeding $25 million (in second-quarter 1980 dollars), if the
discharger is a corporation, and authority to sign documents has been assigned
or delegated to the manager in accordance with corporate procedures;

	(c)	a general partner or proprietor if the discharger is a partnership or
proprietorship, respectively;

	(d)	a principal executive officer or director having responsibility for the
overall operation of the discharging facility or a ranking elected official if
the discharger is a governmental entity, charitable organization or other such
unincorporated entity; or

	(e)	a representative authorized in writing by any individual designated above,
if the authorization is submitted to the Director and specifies an individual or
a position having responsibility for the overall operation of the facility. 
This includes the position of plant manager, a position of equivalent
responsibility, or an individual having overall responsibility for environmental
matters for the company.  If an authorization under Paragraph (e) is no longer
accurate because a different individual or position has the responsibility for
the overall operation of the facility, or overall responsibility for
environmental matters of the company, a new authorization satisfying the
requirements of Paragraph (e) of this section must be submitted to the Director
prior to, or together with, any reports to be signed by such person.

	4.	Average Daily Flow shall mean the number of gallons of wastewater discharged
into the POTW, storm drain system or Waters of the State during a 24-hour
period.

	5.	Best Management Practices (BMP) shall mean activities, prohibitions of
practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices to prevent or
reduce pollutants in discharges.

	6.	Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) shall mean the quantity of oxygen utilized
in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter in five (5) days at 20 degrees
celsius expressed in terms of milligrams per liter (mg/l) and analyzed in
accordance with the most recent publication of  “Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater” prepared and published by the American
Public Health Association, American Water Works Association and Water
Environment Federation.

	7.	Board shall mean the Board of Public Works of the City of Los Angeles or its
duly authorized representative.

	8.	Bonded Sewer shall mean any public sewer within the territorial limits of
the City of Los Angeles as they now exist for which the cost of construction
thereof was not directly assessed against the property in accordance with
benefits, or paid for by the present or prior owners of the connecting property.

	9.	Bonded Sewer House Connection Sewer shall mean any house connection sewer or
portion thereof from a lot, or part of a lot, to a bonded sewer located directly
in front, rear, or at the side of such lot, or part of such lot.

	10.	Categorical Standards shall mean National Categorical Pretreatment
Standards or Pretreatment Standards as promulgated by the Federal Environmental
Protection Agency.

	11.	City shall mean the City of Los Angeles or its duly authorized
representatives.

	12.	Commercial Establishment shall mean a private establishment such as a
restaurant, hotel, laundry, store, filling station, or recreational facility. 
A nonprofit private or government entity such as a church, school, hospital,
military facility, correctional institution, recreational facility or a facility
owned or operated by a charitable organization is considered a commercial
establishment.

	13.	Commingled Load shall mean a load of septage which includes septage
generated both within and outside the City’s boundaries.

	14.	Composite Sample shall mean a sample formed by mixing discrete samples
taken at periodic points in time or a continuous proportion of the flow.  The
number of discrete samples which make up the composite sample depends upon the
variability of pollutant concentration and flow.

	15.	Construction shall be deemed to include the acquisition of any and all
rights of way or real property necessary for the performance and completion of
the work referred to wherever authority is given to the City for any
construction under the provisions of this article.

	16.	Contract Agency shall mean a governmental agency or private entity which
has contracted with the City to discharge into the City’s Publicly Owned
Treatment Works.

	17.	Cooling Water shall mean the water discharged from any use including, but
not limited to, air conditioning, cooling or refrigeration, during which the
only pollutant added is heat.

	18.	Direct Discharge shall mean the discharge of wastewater to the storm drain
system or Waters of the State.

	19.	Director shall mean the Director of the Bureau of Sanitation of the
Department of Public Works of the City of Los Angeles or the duly authorized
representative thereof.

	20.	Discharge shall mean the introduction of water, wastewater or any pollutant
into the POTW, the storm drain system, or Waters of the State.

	21.	Discharger shall mean any person who causes or contributes a discharge into
the POTW, the storm drain system, or the Waters of the State.

	22.	Domestic Septage shall mean the liquid or solid material removed from a
private sewage disposal system (PSDS), portable toilet or other holding device
that receives only domestic sewage.

	23.	Domestic Wastewater (Domestic Sewage) shall mean sanitary wastewater and
wastewater generated from household type operations.

	24.	Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) shall mean the Federal Environmental
Protection Agency, its Administrator, or its duly authorized representative.

	25.	Etiologic Agent shall mean a type of microorganism, helminth or virus which
may be expected to produce disease in healthy persons.

	26.	Fomites shall mean inanimate objects contaminated with etiologic agents
which may serve to transmit those etiologic agents to humans.

	27.	Food Service Establishment shall mean a facility engaged in preparing food
for consumption by the public such as a restaurant, commercial kitchen, caterer,
hotel, school, hospital, prison, correctional facility, or care institution.

	28.	Grab Sample shall mean a sample which is taken from a wastewater discharge
on a onetime basis without regard to the volume of flow in the discharge.

	29.	Grease Interceptor shall mean an interceptor of at least 750 gallons (2839
L) capacity to serve one (1) or more fixtures and which shall be remotely
located.

	30.	Grease Trap shall mean a device designed to retain grease from one (1) to a
maximum of four fixtures.

	31.	Gross Floor Area shall mean the area included within the exterior of the
surrounding walls of a building or portions thereof, exclusive of courts.

	32.	House Connection Sewer shall mean any sewer pipe line, or portion thereof,
constructed in a street, alley, walk or other public place or in a sewer
easement granted to the City and connecting, or proposed to connect, any lot or
part of a lot with any public sewer.

	33.	Indirect Discharge shall mean the discharge of wastewater into the POTW.

	34.	Industrial Wastewater Sewer Connection shall mean any house connection
sewer, or portion thereof, used in the disposal of any and all liquid or
waterborne waste from industrial or commercial processes except domestic sewage.

	35.	Industrial Wastewater Storm Drain Connection shall mean any storm drain
connection carrying or intended to carry industrial waste from any industrial,
manufacturing, processing, or servicing establishment.

	36.	Industrial Wastewater shall mean any water bearing waste other than
domestic wastewater.  Wastewater generated from household type operations
performed at commercial establishments for or to support commercial purposes is
industrial wastewater.

	37.	Industrial Wastewater Permit shall mean a permit issued by the Board as
provided in and subject to provisions of Subdivision 1 of Subsection C and
payment of fee requirements of Subsection D of Section 64.30.

	38.	Infectious Waste shall mean any waste material or article which harbors or
may reasonably be considered to harbor viable etiologic agents and shall include
the following:

	(a)	Significant laboratory wastes including, but not limited to, cultures of
etiologic agents.

	(b)	Pathologic specimens including, but not limited to, human or animal
tissues, blood elements, excreta and secretions which contain etiologic agents
and also include  attendant disposable formites.

	(c)	Human dialysis waste materials including arterial lines and dialysate
membranes.

	(d)	Surgical specimens including, but not limited to, human or animal parts and
tissues removed surgically or at autopsy which contain etiologic agents and
attendant disposable fomites.

	(e)	Equipments, instruments, utensils and other materials of a disposable
nature which may transmit etiologic agents from the rooms of humans or the
enclosures of animals which have been isolated with suspected or diagnosed
communicable disease.

	(f)	Any other materials defined by a duly authorized public health officer as
potentially infectious and required to be managed as an infectious waste.

	39.	Interceptor Sewer shall mean a collecting sewer that intercepts and
collects the sewage from a number of lateral or local public sewers.

	40.	Interference shall mean the inhibition or disruption of the POTW process or
operations or any actions or omission which alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources is a cause of violation of any
requirement of the City’s NPDES Permits (including an increase in the
magnitude or duration of a violation).  The term interference also includes
prevention of biosolids use or disposal by the POTW in accordance with Section
405 of the Act or any violation of criteria, guidelines, or regulations
developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA), the Clean Air Act,
the Toxic Substance Control Act, the Marine Protection Research and Sanctuaries
Act or violation of more stringent State criteria (including those contained in
any State sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Title II of SWDA)
applicable to the method of disposal or use employed by the POTW.

	41.	Local Industrial User (LIU) shall mean a discharger of industrial
wastewater which 

	(a)	is not subject to Categorical Pretreatment Standards under 40 CFR 403.6 and
40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter N, 

	(b)	discharges an average of less than 25,000 gallons per day of process
wastewater to the POTW; and 

	(c)	as determined by the Director, does not have a reasonable potential for
adversely affecting the POTW’s operation or for violating any pretreatment
standard or requirements in accordance with 40 CFR 403.8(f)(6).

	42.	Lot shall mean any piece or parcel of land, as bounded, defined or shown
upon the latest map, plat or deed recorded in the office of the County Recorder
of Los Angeles County provided however that in the event any building or
improvements appurtenant to said building covers more area than a “lot,” as
herein defined, the term “lot” shall be deemed to be and include all such
pieces or parcels of land upon which said buildings or improvements are wholly
or partly located.

	43.	National Categorical Pretreatment Standard (National Standard) shall mean
any regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in
accordance with Section 307(b) and (c) of the Act.

	44.	National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System Permit (NPDES Permit) shall
mean a permit issued pursuant to Section 402 of the Act.

	45.	Non-Domestic Septage shall mean the liquid or solid material removed from a
private sewage disposal system (PSDS) or other sanitation holding device that
receives industrial wastewater or a combination of domestic and industrial
wastewater.

	46.	Pass Through shall mean a discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the
State in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, is the cause of a violation of any
requirement of the POTW’s NPDES Permit (including an increase in the magnitude
and duration of a violation).

	47.	Peak Flow shall mean the maximum five minute rate of wastewater flow to be
generated from the premises as estimated by the City Engineer.

	48.	Person shall mean any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm,
company, corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate,
governmental entity or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives,
agents or assigns. The masculine gender shall include the feminine, the singular
shall include the plural where indicated by the context.

	49.	pH shall mean the logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the
concentration of hydrogen ions expressed in gram equivalents per liter of
solution.

	50.	Pigment shall mean a substance that imparts black or white or a color to
other materials.

	51.	Point of Discharge shall mean any physical location at which a discharger,
directly or indirectly, disposes wastewater. The term point of discharge also
includes, but is not limited to, disposal to ponds, injection wells, leach
fields, or surface spreading.

	52.	Pollutant shall mean any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue,
sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological
materials, radioactive materials, heat, pigment, wrecked or discharged
equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt or other waste.

	53.	Portable Toilet shall mean any portable or permanently installed sanitation
apparatus or system which includes a tank for toilet waste retention.  Portable
Toilet includes sanitation holding devices from airplanes, trains, boats with
type III marine sanitation devices, buses, movie dressing room trailers,
recreational vehicles, or other similar transport vehicles.

	54.	Pretreatment shall mean the reduction of the amount of pollutants, the
elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in wastewater to a less polluted state prior to or in lieu of
discharging such pollutants into the POTW, storm drain system or the Waters of
the State. Pretreatment can be obtained by physical, chemical or biological
processes, or process changes by other means, except as prohibited by 40 Code of
Federal Regulation (CFR) at Section 403.6(d).

	55.	Pretreatment Requirements shall mean any substantive or procedural
requirement related to pretreatment, other than a National Categorical
Pretreatment Standard.

	56.	Private Septage Disposal Facility (PSDF) shall mean a disposal site, other
than a City designated discharge location, with a direct connection to the City
sewer, which accommodates the discharge of hauled septage.

	57.	Private Sewage Disposal System (PSDS) shall mean any septic tank, cesspool,
seepage pit, leach field, or any other receptacle, or any combination thereof,
which receives any wastewater not discharged into a public sewer.

	58.	Public Sewer shall mean any sewer, other than a house connection sewer,
which has been constructed in a public street, alley, walk, or other public
place, or in a sewer easement, and is a part of the POTW.

	59.	Publicly Owned Treatment Works (POTW)  (Sanitary Sewer System) shall mean
treatment works defined by Section 212 of the Act, which are wholly or partially
owned by the City.  This includes any public sewers, treatment plants, land,
appurtenances, pumping stations, or equipment.  For the purpose of this
ordinance, POTW shall also include any sewers within the City of Los Angeles
that convey wastewater to the POTW from persons outside the City who are, by
contract or agreement with the City, dischargers to the City’s POTW.

	60.	Rules and Regulations shall mean Rules and Regulations adopted by the Board
Governing the Disposal of Industrial Wastewater into the Publicly Owned
Treatment Works of the City of Los Angeles.

	61.	Sanitary Wastewater shall mean wastewater of human origin derived from
toilets, urinals, showers, baths and restroom sinks.

	62.	Septage shall mean the liquid or solid material removed from a private
sewage disposal system (PSDS), portable toilet or other sanitation holding
device that receives wastewater.

	63.	Septage Hauler shall mean a person or an owner/operator of a business that
holds Septage Disposal Permit(s) issued by the Director to discharge septage to
the City’s POTW.

	64.	Sewage Generation Factor shall mean as a number which, when multiplied by a
parameter which indicates the level of activity in an occupancy such as floor
area or number of seats, produces an estimate of the average sewage discharge
from the occupancy.

	65.	Shall is mandatory. May is permissive.

	66.	Sharps shall mean hypodermic needles, hypodermic syringes, blades and
broken glass. Sharps also include any devices, instruments or other objects
which have acute rigid corners, edges or protuberances.

	67.	Significant Industrial User (SIU), subject to the provisions established in
40 CFR 403.3(t), shall mean the following:

	(a)	any discharger of wastewater who is subject to National Categorical
Pretreatment Standards;

	(b)	any other industrial user that discharges an average of 25,000 gallons or
more per day of process wastewater (“process wastewater” excludes sanitary,
non contact cooling water and boiler blowdown wastewaters) or contributes
process wastewater which makes up five percent (5%) or more of the average dry
weather hydraulic or organic (BOD, TSS, etc.) capacity of the treatment plant;

	(c)	any industrial user that is designated by the Director to have a reasonable
potential to adversely affect the POTW’s operation or for violating any
pretreatment standard or requirement.

	68.	Special Drainage Connection shall mean any house connection sewer or storm
drain connection from any swimming pool, wading pool, fountain, pond, tank, vat
or receptacle which receives or disposes of rain water or surface water.

	69.	Special House Connection Sewer shall mean any house connection sewer from a
lot, or part of a lot, which does not have a public sewer directly in front,
rear, or at the side of such lot or part of such lot, and which has not been
directly assessed for a public sewer.

	70.	Split Sampling shall mean dividing of wastewater samples for analysis at
two (or more) analytical laboratories for comparison of results.

	71.	Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) shall mean classification pursuant
to the Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office
of the President, Office of Management and Budget, 1972, or subsequent
revisions.

	72.	State shall mean the State of California.

	73.	Storm Drain Connection shall mean any pipeline, or portion thereof,
constructed in a street, alley, walk, or other public place, or in an easement
granted to the City, and connecting or proposed to connect any lot or part of a
lot with any storm drain.

	74.	Storm Drain System shall mean all of the property involved in the operation
of the storm drainage collection and disposal system of the City of Los Angeles,
including conduits, natural or artificial drains, channels and watercourses,
together with appurtenances, pumping stations and equipment.

	75.	Suspended Solids (SS) shall mean the total nonfilterable residue in water,
wastewater or other liquids, which is removable in accordance with the most
recent publication of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater, prepared and published by the American Public Health Association,
American Water Works Association, and the Water Pollution Control Federation.

	76.	Temporary Permit shall mean an interim status permit issued to a discharger
until a final decision is made by the Director to issue an Industrial Wastewater
Permit.

	77.	Toxic Pollutant shall mean any pollutant or combination of pollutants
listed as toxic in regulations promulgated by the Administrator of EPA under the
provisions of Section 307 of the Act, or other Federal or State statutes, rules
or regulations.

	78.	Type III Marine Sanitation Device shall mean a device that is designed to
prevent the overboard discharge of treated or untreated domestic sewage.

	79.	Wastewater shall mean the liquid and waterborne industrial or domestic
wastes from facilities including, but not limited to, dwellings, commercial
buildings, industrial facilities, agricultural activities, hospitals, medical
facilities and other institutions, together with other wastes which may be
present, whether treated or untreated, which enter the POTW, the storm drain
system, of the Waters of the State.

	80.	Waters of the State shall mean all saline waters, streams, lakes, ponds,
marshes, watercourses, waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers,
irrigation systems, drainage systems and all other bodies or accumulations of
water, surface or underground, natural or artificial, public or private, which
are contained within, flow through, or border upon the State of California or
any portion thereof.

	B.	Abbreviations.  The acronyms or sets of letters set forth in this
subsection, when used in this chapter, shall stand for and be understood and may
be accepted or used as abbreviations for those terms or phrases set forth
opposite each:

	BOD		-	Biochemical Oxygen Demand
	BMP		-	Best Management Practice
	CFR		-	Code of Federal Regulations
	COD		-	Chemical Oxygen Demand
	FOG		-	Fats, Oil and Grease
	FSE		-	Food Service Establishment
	EPA		-	Environmental Protection Agency
	mg 		-	Milligrams
	mg/l 		-	Milligrams per liter
	O&#038;M 		- 	Operation and Maintenance
	NCPS 		- 	National Categorical Pretreatment Standards
	NPDES	- 	National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
	POTW		- 	Publicly Owned Treatment Works
	PSDF		- 	Private Septage Disposal Facility
	PSDS		- 	Private Sewage Disposal System
	SIC		- 	Standard Industrial Classification
	SS		- 	Suspended Solids
	SWDA		- 	Solid Waste Disposal Act, 42 U.S.C. 6901, et seq.
	USC		- 	United States Code
