                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SEWER CONNECTION REGULATIONS. (§ 64.17)

  SEWER CONNECTION REGULATIONS.	No person having obtained a permit from the
Board shall construct, alter, or repair any house connection sewer or any
portion of any house connection sewer, or makes a connection to any public
sewer, or house connection sewer, pursuant to any such permit, at any place
other than that designated thereon, or fail, refuse or neglect to comply with
any such requirement contained or referred to in this section.	At all times,
while the work under any such permit is in progress, the original of such permit
must be kept at the place of the work and must, on demand be exhibited to the
Board or to any of its inspectors, agents or representatives, or to any police
officer.	(a)	In those streets and alleys included in that portion of this City,
designated by Chapter 8 of this Code as the Central Traffic District, when an
excavation is commenced, the making of the excavation, the work to be done
therein and the refilling of the excavation, shall be prosecuted diligently and
continuously until completed, so as not to obstruct the street or other public
place or travel thereon, more than is actually necessary.	(b)	The construction
of all house connection sewers, and all repairs to such house connection sewers,
shall be as follows:	1.	All pipe shall be clay, cement, cast iron, ABS and PVC
plastic pipe or asbestos cement and have a minimum internal diameter of six
inches. (Amended by Ord. No. 152,157, Eff. 5/13/79)	2.	House connection sewers
in easements over private property shall be constructed of only clay pipe with
flexible joints, ABS and PVC plastic pipe or cast iron pipe, and may have an
internal diameter of four or six inches.  (Amended by Ord. No. 152,157, Eff.
5/13/79)	3.	Upon proper application to the Board, the Board may permit the
increase in the internal diameter of house connection sewers to not more than
two inches less than the internal diameter of the public sewer to which it is
connected, if such increased diameter is in accordance with good engineering
practice.	4.	The quality of the pipe, the type of joint and other materials
used, the manner of constructing house connection sewers, the backfilling of the
trench, except where specifically provided for herein, or by the Board, shall be
the same as is required by the latest specifications and standard plans for the
construction of sanitary sewers in this City.	(c)	Whenever, in connection with
the construction or repair of a sewer connection, a hazardous excavation must be
made or an excavation is to be made by tunneling under the surface of a street
or alley, the Board may adopt such regulations and require such special
inspections as it may deem necessary. The cost of such special inspection shall
be estimated by the Board and paid as outlined in Section 64.15.	(d)	All house
connection sewers, unless otherwise authorized by the Board, shall be laid on a
uniform grade of not less than two per cent, with a depth, measured to the
invert, at the property line, of not less than four feet below the top of the
existing curb or proposed curb at the nearest point. If there is no existing or
proposed curb, then such house connection sewers shall be laid on a uniform
grade of not less than two per cent, with a depth, measured to the invert, not
less than four feet below the surface of the roadway, sidewalk or alley at the
property line, unless a greater depth is required to serve such
property.	(e)	(None)	(f)	Where a building is on or immediately adjacent to the
property line, to which a sewer connection must be constructed, and an existing
house sewer from said building ends at such property line at a depth of less
than the depth required in this section for the upper end of a house connection
sewer to be constructed to such property line; or where an earth bank over 4
feet in height exists adjacent to the curb line or property line, the Board
shall adopt such regulations, for the construction of that portion of the house
connection sewer between the curb line and property line, if in a street, and
between the main sewer and the property line, if in an alley, walk or other
public place improved or to be improved without a curb, which will meet such
conditions better than the method of construction herein prescribed.	Where a
main sewer exceeds 14 feet in depth the manner of constructing a house
connection sewer from such a sewer shall be regulated by the Board.	(g)	(Amended
by Ord. No. 142,123, Eff. 7/31/71.)  Persons making an excavation in any street
or sidewalk for any of the purposes mentioned in Sections 64.12 to 64.22
inclusive, must maintain free access to all fire hydrants and water gates. All
materials excavated shall be laid compactly along the side of the trench and
kept trimmed up so as to cause as little inconvenience as possible to public
travel. If any excavation is made across any street or alley, at least one safe
crossing must be maintained at all times for vehicles and pedestrians. Where
required to keep traffic lanes and sidewalk passageways clear, tight board
fences shall be used to hold excavated material. All gutters must be maintained
free and unobstructed for the full depth of the adjacent curb and for at least
one (1) foot in width from the face of such curb at the gutter line. All work
shall be performed in accordance with the latest adopted manual entitled “Work
Area Traffic Control”, the latest adopted “Standard Specifications for
Public Works Construction”, any required plans and special specifications and
shall be performed to the satisfaction of the Board.	If the warning signs,
lights and devices required under this section are not promptly provided, the
Board may provide them; the cost of such work performed by the Board may be
billed to the permittee.	(h)	Any excavation made for the purpose of making a
house connection to a sewer shall be refilled in the manner required by this
article within three days after inspection of the pipe by the Board, or within
three days after the date of the completion of the excavation if no work is done
therein. Nothing in this article contained shall be construed to allow a longer
period of time therefor.	The top surface of the backfill shall conform closely
enough to the level of the adjoining street or sidewalk surface and shall be
compacted so that it is hard enough and smooth enough to be safe for pedestrian
travel over it as well as for vehicular traffic to pass safely over it at a
legal rate of speed. The permittee shall maintain the surface of the backfill in
a condition safe for pedestrian and vehicular traffic until the said surface has
been repaired by the Board, and said permittee shall be responsible for all
accidents which may occur due to pedestrians traveling over or upon the site of
the excavation as well as vehicles crossing said site at a legal rate of speed,
until said surface has been so repaired.  (Amended by Ord. No. 142,123, Eff.
7/31/71.)	If it is impracticable to maintain the surface of the backfill in safe
condition for pedestrian travel or vehicular traffic, subject to concurrence by
the inspector, then the permittee shall maintain barriers and lights around it
in accordance with Subsection (g) hereof until the sidewalk and street pavements
have been repaired.  (Added by Ord. No. 142,123, Eff. 7/31/71.)	(i)	The street
surface excavated or damaged shall be replaced by the Board, and the cost
thereof shall be recovered by the Board in accordance with the provisions of
Section 62.05 of this Code. (Amended by Ord. No. 121,900, Eff. 6/4/62.)	(j)	In
all cases where the public records of a public sewer, or house connection sewer,
do not correctly represent the existing condition of or conditions surrounding
such sewer, or where, in the opinion of the Board, the physical conditions are
such that strict compliance with the provisions of Section 64.12 to Section
64.22, inclusive, if unnecessary or unreasonable, the Board is granted the power
to make modifications for individual cases, and determine the procedure to be
followed, and its decision shall be final.	(k)	No person shall connect a 4-inch
house sewer to a 6-inch house connection sewer without first installing a 6-inch
by 4-inch by 4-inch increaser tee on the end of the 6-inch house connection
sewer, or a six-inch by 4-inch increaser followed by a 4-inch by 4-inch by
4-inch tee branch.
