                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

BASIS FOR SEWERAGE FACILITIES CHARGE. (§ 64.11.3)

  BASIS FOR SEWERAGE FACILITIES CHARGE.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 164,895, Eff. 6/26/89.)	(a)	(Amended by Ord. No. 171,036,
Eff. 6/6/96.)  There is hereby imposed a sewerage facilities charge which shall
be a fee for access to the City’s sewage system based upon a share of the
equity of the system.  The system equity shall include:	(i)	the reproduction
cost less depreciation value of the existing facilities; plus 	(ii)	the
applicable portion of sewage system reserve funds; less 	(iii)	the outstanding
debt of the sewage system.	The share of system equity included in the SFC shall
be proportional to the flow, biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) and suspended
solids (SS) of the wastewater discharged into the sewage system from the
premises as compared with the total flow, BOD and SS discharged by all system
customers.	(b)	The sewerage facilities charge rates shall be $344.00 per 100
gallons per day average flow, $159.00 per pound per day of BOD and $147.00 per
pound per day of SS from the premises.  These rates shall apply for all
sewerage facilities charges and credits imposed pursuant to Section 64.16.1 of
this Code.  Any sewerage facilities charge paid on an installment basis shall
be based on the charge rates in effect when the applicant entered into the
installment payment agreement with the City.  (First Sentence Amended by Ord.
No. 182,076, Eff. 4/6/12.)SEWERAGE FACILITIES CHARGE
(Table removed by Ord. No. 170,393, Eff. 3/27/95.)	(c)	In the event the premises
are to be connected to the City sewer system but the sewage entering such system
is treated in the facilities of a Los Angeles County Sanitation District, the
sewerage facilities charge shall be 15% of the rates established in Subsections
(b), (d), and (f) of this section.  (Amended by Ord. No. 165,923, Eff.
7/1/90.)	(d)	The City Engineer with approval of the Board shall set the sewage
generation factors for various occupancies and for mixed occupancies for the
purpose of determining the sewerage facilities charge for new or remodelled
construction, or change in use.  The operative date of this amended subsection
shall be July 1, 1994.  (Amended by Ord. No. 170,393, Eff. 3/27/95.)	(e)	The
Board may require the owner of any property to submit plans, and such other
information as it may need to determine the applicable sewerage facilities
charge.  (Added by Ord. No. 164,895, Eff. 6/26/89.)	(f)	For industrial
occupancies, the Board shall determine the average wastewater flow for
calculation of the appropriate sewerage facilities charge through consideration
of metered water delivery data, if available.  If not available, it shall
consider the peak flow which the occupancy is capable of discharging and the
occupancy’s expected operating schedules and practices.  It may establish a
minimum reasonable operating schedule for use in calculating a minimum
applicable sewerage facilities charge.  (Amended by Ord. No. 166,980, Eff.
7/6/91.)	(g)	(Former Subsec. (e), Relettered by Ord. No. 164,895, Eff.
6/26/89.)  The rates fixed by the provisions of this section shall be
implemented as follows:	1.	All sewerage facilities charges paid on or after the
operative date of any amendments to this section shall be at the rates specified
therein.	2.	(Amended by Ord. No. 170,393, Eff. 3/27/95.)  The date for
calculating the applicable sewerage facilities charge for a particular project
or discharge shall be fixed as follows:	(i)	where a sewer connection permit is
required, on the date the connection permit is issued;	(ii)	where no connection
permit is required but a building permit is required, on the date the building
permit authorizing the majority of the structural construction is issued;
and	(iii)	where neither a connection permit nor a building permit is required,
on the initial date of the increased discharge which triggers the additional
payment.	Where the charge has been paid on or after July 1, 1994 at a certain
rate or sewage generation factor, but the connection or building permit referred
to in (i) or (ii) above has not been issued, and the SFC rate and/or sewage
generation factor changes, the permittee shall pay the additional amount or
shall be eligible for a refund, as applicable, when the connection permit or
building permit is issued.  The amount of the additional payment or the refund
shall be the difference between the SFC calculated before and after the changes
in rate and/or sewage generation factor.  Notwithstanding any other sections of
this code, the City Engineer with Board approval is authorized to direct the
Controller to make such refunds as necessary.	3.	Where application is made for a
new house sewer connection permit under Section 64.14(a) of the Municipal Code
after a previous permit has expired following its non-extendable two-year
duration, and the Sewerage Facilities Charge has been paid at a rate in effect
prior to an increase in the charge and the new  application is made after such
increase, the additional Sewerage Facilities Charge due under the rate
applicable at the time of application shall be paid as a condition of issuance
of the new permit.  (Amended by Ord. No. 168,578, Eff. 3/13/93.)	4.	Effective
May 1, 1989, the sewerage facilities charge rate to be paid by the property
owners for sewer connection on assessment sewer projects will be set at the rate
in effect on the date the Ordinance of Intention is adopted by the City
Council.  The sewer connection must be made within one year after acceptance of
the completed sewer by the Board of Public Works.  (Added by Ord. No. 168,082,
Eff. 8/22/92.)
