                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

HOUSE SEWER CONNECTION – PERMIT. (§ 64.12)

  HOUSE SEWER CONNECTION – PERMIT.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 150,478, Eff. 2/6/78.)	(a)	No person shall make,
construct, alter, or repair any house connection sewer, bonded house connection
sewer, special house connection sewer, industrial waste sewer connection,
industrial waste storm drain connection, storm drain connection, or special
drainage connection, or any portion of any such sewer or storm drain
connections, including sampling manholes, or connect any house sewer, soil pipe,
or plumbing to any such sewer or storm drain connections or to a sewer or storm
drain under the jurisdiction of the City of Los Angeles, without first obtaining
a written permit therefor from the Board of Public Works.	(b)	Persons desiring
to obtain a permit for any of the purposes enumerated in Sections 64.12 to 64.22
inclusive, shall file with the Board a written application therefor signed by
the applicant, on printed forms, furnished by it for that purpose. The
application shall contain such information as the Board may require. If it
appears from the application that the work to be performed thereunder is to be
done according to the regulations contained or referred to in this article,
governing the doing of such work, a permit shall be issued upon payment of the
permit charges required or referred to in Section 64.15.	(c)	The Board before
granting any permit in accordance with the provisions of Sections 64.12 to 64.22
inclusive, which will necessitate any excavation in, upon or under any State
highway in this City or the making of a connection to a sewer or house
connection sewer for which a permit is also required from a County Sanitation
District, or a political subdivision other than this City, shall require such
permit to be presented for inspection.	(d)	Nothing in this section shall be
deemed or construed to require the application for or the issuance of a permit
for the purpose of removing stoppages in any house connection sewer, except when
it is necessary to replace any part or all of such sewer connection or to
excavate in any street or sidewalk or sewer easement in connection
therewith.	(e)	A permit under which an excavation, tunnel, or the laying of
sewer, or storm drain pipe in any public street is contemplated will be issued
only to other departments of the City, other governmental agencies, or
contractors holding a valid contractor’s license issued by the Contractors’
License Board of the State of California in the classification of A-1 General
Engineering, B-1 General Building, C-36 Plumbing, or C-42 Sewer, Sewage
Disposal, Drain, Cement Pipe Laying.  (Added by Ord. No. 121,900, Eff.
6/4/62.)	EXCEPTION:  A permit for making sewer connections at the property line
may be issued to any responsible person when in the opinion of the Board, the
granting of such permit will not endanger public property or jeopardize the
public’s interests.	(f)	Any person performing work pursuant to a permit issued
under this section shall comply with all the provisions of Section 62.03.1 of
this Code. (Added by Ord. No. 150,478, Eff. 2/6/78.)
