                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SEWERAGE FACILITIES CHARGE FOR SEWER CONNECTION. (§ 64.16.1)

  SEWERAGE FACILITIES CHARGE FOR SEWER CONNECTION.	(a)	(Amended by Ord. No.
171,036, Eff. 6/6/96.)  Before granting a permit to connect any lot or parcel
or to connect a new building on such lot or parcel to a public sewer or house
connection sewer pursuant to the provisions of Section 64.12 of this Code,
including a replacement building following a demolition, except applications for
permits to repair or replace existing sewer connections which repair or
replacement is unrelated to any new construction or to new use or occupancy, the
Board shall require, in addition to all other charges and fees imposed by
Sections 64.12 to 64.22, inclusive, the payment by the applicant therefor of a
Sewerage Facilities Charge fixed in accordance with Section 64.11.3.  The Board
shall provide a credit pursuant to Subsection (c).	(b)	(Amended by Ord. No.
171,036, Eff. 6/6/96.)  A Sewerage Facilities Charge, based upon the rates
established in Section 64.11.3 of this article, shall also be imposed as
follows:	1.	Where a physical addition is made to an existing residential
occupancy to create an additional dwelling unit or units, or where an existing
residential occupancy is modified to create an additional dwelling unit or
units, a charge shall be imposed for each additional dwelling unit on a lot or
parcel created by the addition or modification.  Where any existing dwelling
unit is enlarged or modified to create an additional bedroom or bedrooms, a
charge shall be imposed for each additional bedroom created on the lot or parcel
by the addition or modification.	2.	Where an addition is made to an existing
commercial building, or an additional commercial building is constructed on a
lot or parcel, a charge shall be imposed based on the increase in gross floor
area or on the increase in such other indicator of activity as the Board may
adopt.	3.	Where the average flow discharge and/or the average discharge of 
mass emissions of biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) and/or suspended solids (SS)
from industrial buildings on a lot or parcel are increased, a charge shall be
imposed based on the average flow and the BOD and SS mass emissions (calculated
as the flow rate multiplied by the BOD and SS concentrations and by a unit
conversion factor) following the increase.  The Board shall provide a credit
pursuant to Subsection (c).	4.	Where the use or occupancy of an existing
building on a lot or parcel is changed, a Sewerage Facilities Charge shall be
imposed based upon such new use or occupancy.  The Board shall provide a credit
pursuant to Subsection (c).	(c)	Whenever a credit is allowed, the credit shall
be determined by first calculating flow, BOD and SS credits and then calculating
an aggregate monetary credit.  The flow, BOD and SS credits shall remain with
the lot or parcel except as provided in Section 64.16.2 or 64.19(e).  (Amended
by Ord. No. 182,076, Eff. 4/6/12.)	1.	The flow credit shall be calculated as the
total of the following:	(i)	the largest average flow rate of discharge from the
lot or parcel to a public sewer determined by the City Engineer to have occurred
before establishment of the Sewerage Facilities Charge, provided that it shall
be the applicant’s responsibility to submit documented evidence satisfactory
to the City Engineer to obtain this credit; plus	(ii)	the average flow rate of
discharge for which a Sewerage Facilities Charge has been paid in cash, by
transferral from a revitalization, enterprise, or empowerment zone per Section
64.16.2, or by construction of an offsite sewer pursuant to Section 64.11.3,
provided that offsite sewer construction shall have been accomplished and its
cost documented in accordance with the policies of the City Engineer to obtain
this credit; minus	(iii)	the average flow rate of discharge which is equivalent
to the flow component of any refunds which have been paid; minus	(iv)	the
average flow rate of discharge which has been transferred away pursuant to
Section 64.16.2.	2.	The Board shall adopt rules to determine the initial BOD and
SS credits allocable to a lot or parcel upon implementation of this subsection
(c).	3.	The credits for strength (BOD and SS) parameters shall be calculated as
the total of the following:	(i)	the largest average rate of mass emissions
discharge from the lot or parcel to a public sewer determined by the City
Engineer to have occurred before establishment of the Sewerage Facilities
Charge, provided that it shall be the applicant’s responsibility to submit
documented evidence satisfactory to the City Engineer to obtain this credit;
plus	(ii)	the average rate of mass emissions discharge for which a Sewerage
Facilities Charge has been paid in cash, by transferral from a revitalization,
enterprise, or empowerment zone per Section 64.16.2, or by construction of an
offsite sewer pursuant to Section 64.11.3, provided that offsite sewer
construction shall have been accomplished and its cost documented in accordance
with the policies of the City Engineer to obtain this credit; minus	(iii)	the
average rate of mass emissions discharge which is equivalent to the mass
emissions component of any refunds which have been paid; minus	(iv)	the average
rate of mass emissions discharge which has been transferred away pursuant to
Section 64.16.2.	The monetary credit shall be calculated by multiplying the
rates established pursuant to Section 64.11.3 at the time the Sewerage
Facilities charge was paid by the flow, BOD and SS credits and summing the
results, provided that the total credit shall not exceed the Sewerage Facilities
Charge required to be paid except as provided in Subdivision 6. of Subsection
(a) of Section 64.19.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,076, Eff.
4/6/12.)	Notwithstanding the previous sentence, in the case of reconstruction of
a building damaged by the earthquake of January 17, 1994, the amount of the
credit shall be the Sewerage Facilities Charge which would have been applicable
on January 17, 1994, or the Sewerage Facilities Charge based on the rates
established pursuant to Section 64.11.3, whichever is greater.	(d)	((c)
Relettered (d) by Ord. No. 171,036, Eff. 6/6/96.)  The Council may, in the
exercise of its sound discretion, and upon advice of the Board, reduce the
sewers facilities charge for any property for which off-site public sewers are
constructed beyond the limits of said property, by all or part of the actual
cost of the construction of said off-site public sewer.	(e)	((d) Relettered (e)
by Ord. No. 171,036, Eff. 6/6/96.)  Where the applicant meets the criteria as
specified hereinafter, and enters into an installment payment agreement with the
Board, the applicant shall be allowed to pay the Sewerage Facilities Charge as
follows:  a down payment of 15 percent of the Sewerage Facilities Charge due,
or more at the applicant’s option, followed by quarterly installments
extending over a period not to exceed five (5) years at such interest rate as
the Board shall establish annually in July of each year.  The rate shall be the
simple average of the last available twelve months’ average interest earnings
from the pool in which Sewer Construction and Maintenance Fund moneys are
invested, as reported by the City Treasurer and rounded to the nearest tenth of
one percent, plus one percent.	EXCEPTION:  Interest shall not be charged to a
charitable institution as defined in Item No. 2 below.  Quarterly installments
shall be in the amount necessary to fully amortize the Sewerage Facilities
Charge, excluding the down payment, and interest over the payment period.	The
Board shall also establish a fixed fee to cover setup and administrative costs
associated with the installment plan.  This fee shall be determined as provided
in Section 12.37-I,1 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.  If the applicant is a
lessee, the installment payment period shall not exceed the remaining period of
time the applicant is to occupy the subject property under the terms of the
lease agreement.  Provisions in the lease agreement for termination of the
lease upon the occurrence of certain events shall not prevent the lessee from
entering into an installment agreement.	The applicant must meet one or more of
the following criteria:	1.	The applicant’s property is an individual site in
which the Sewerage Facilities Charge due equals or exceeds $17,000. 
“Individual site” shall not include a subdivision with more than one sewer
connection.	2.	The applicant is a charitable institution and the Sewerage
Facilities Charge due equals or exceeds $5,000.  For the purpose of this
subsection, a charitable institution shall be an institution which meets the
five criteria listed in Subsection (f) of this section.	3.	The applicant is a
surgical hospital.	4.	The applicant is a property owner who is ceasing to use a
private sewage disposal system and is connecting to the City sewage
system.	(f)	((e) Relettered (f) by Ord. No. 171,036, Eff. 6/6/96.)  Whenever
the Board has authorized an installment payment agreement to be entered into
pursuant to Subsection (e), the following requirements shall apply:	1.	The first
quarterly payment under the installment payment agreement shall be due on the
first day of the third month next succeeding the month in which the down payment
was made.  Remaining payments shall be due on the first day of every third
month thereafter.	2.	A payment shall become delinquent if not postmarked on or
before the 15th of the month in which it is due.  All delinquent payments shall
incur a penalty charge of 10 percent of the cumulative amount of all delinquent
payments, including previous delinquency charges.  Said delinquency charge must
be paid in full before normal payments will again be accepted.	3.	If a payment
remains unpaid beyond the 15th day of the third month next succeeding the date
on which it became delinquent, the permittee shall be determined in default. 
The Board shall notify the permittee, and, in addition, the owner of the
property if different from the permittee, by certified mail with return receipt
that:	A.	The permittee and/or the owner have one month from the default date to
bring the balance current or the entire unpaid plan amount, including delinquent
charges, will become due and payable; and	B.	The connection permit may be
canceled and the connection severed if the permittee  continues in default
beyond that date.	4.	If the permittee remains in default for one month and 10
days, the Board may cancel the Sewer Connection Permit and sever the
connection.  The Board shall notify the permittee, the owner, if different from
the permittee, and the Superintendent of the Department of Building and Safety
at least 10 days before taking such action.	5.	Where title to a premises subject
to an installment payment agreement is sold or transferred, and the permittee is
the owner of said property, the entire unpaid balance of the charge shall
immediately become due and payable and the permittee and the new owner of the
property shall be jointly and severally liable for said amount.  The
installment payment agreement shall provide for the creation of a lien against
the subject property to secure payment to the City, at time of sale, of the
unpaid balance of the Sewerage Facilities Charge and any accrued penalty
charges.  The lien shall be recorded with the County Recorder by means of a
covenant executed by the parties.	6.	In the event the permittee is a lessee on
the property, the entire unpaid balance of the charge shall immediately become
due and payable upon termination of the leasehold interest for whatever reason,
including termination of the lease or assignment of the leasehold interest, and
the permittee shall be liable for said amount.  The installment payment
agreement shall provide for the creation of a lien against the leasehold
interest of the lessee to secure payment to the City of the unpaid balance of
the Sewerage Facilities Charge and any accrued penalty charges at the time of
termination of the leasehold interest.  Such lien requirement shall not be
imposed, however, if the lessee would violate the lease agreement in so doing,
or is unable to obtain the consent of the lessor where such is required by the
lease.  The lien shall be recorded with the County Recorder by means of a
covenant executed by the parties.  In the event of leasehold termination, the
lessor may assume the obligation of payment of the unpaid balance under the
installment payment agreement but will be required to comply with all provisions
of this section which are applicable to owners who are permittees.	7.	Delinquent
charges and all penalties thereon as to any permittee, whether lessee or owner,
shall constitute a lien on the real property served when recorded as provided in
Section 54355 of the Government Code of the State of California and such lien
shall continue until the charge and all penalties thereon are fully paid or the
property sold therefor.	8.	All or part of any unpaid plan amount may be paid in
advance at any time.	9.	When all moneys under the plan have been paid in full, a
Sewer Facilities Charge certificate of payment will be issued.	(g)	((f)
Relettered (g) by Ord. No. 171,036, Eff. 6/6/96.)  Where the applicant is a
charitable hospital, it shall be exempt from sewerage facilities charges. A
hospital is charitable, for the purpose of this subsection if:	1.	It is not
operated for profit;	2.	No part of its assets inures to the benefit of any
private shareholder or individual;	3.	Its assets are irrevocably dedicated for a
charitable purpose;	4.	Upon dissolution, its assets shall be distributed to an
organization exempt for charitable purposes from taxation under the Revenue and
Taxation Code or the Internal Revenue Code.	5.	The applicant has obtained a
charitable purpose tax exemption determination from the California Franchise Tax
Board.	(h)	((g) Relettered (h) by Ord. No. 171,036, Eff. 6/6/96.)	1.	Where the
Board finds that an applicant presently discharging, as of the date of this
ordinance, into the Los Angeles Harbor has been ordered by a State and/or
Federal agency to so cease discharging and, as a result, must therefore connect
to the City sewer system, the Board may permit the applicant to defer payment of
such sewage facilities charge for a two year period from the date of the
application for the sewer connection permit. If at the end of such two year
period the property which was connected to the City’s sewer system pursuant to
such deferment of payment is no longer so connected no sewerage facilities
charge will be imposed. The granting of such deferment of payment is subject to
the applicant entering into an agreement to pay the amount deferred if the
subject property is still connected to the City’s sewer system at the end of
the two year period.  (Para. numbered 1., Amended  by Ord. No. 153,056, Eff.
10/29/79.)	2.	(Added by Ord. No. 153,056, Eff. 10/29/79.)  As to any applicant
granted such a deferment as provided above the Board may grant a deferment for
an additional eighteen month period provided at the time application is made for
such extension the applicant is actively seeking permission from the appropriate
authorities to be permitted to discharge into the Los Angeles Harbor. If at the
end of such eighteen month extension the property which was connected to the
City’s sewer system pursuant to such deferment of payment is no longer so
connected no sewerage facilities charge will be imposed. The granting of such
extended deferment is subject to the applicant entering into an agreement, or
amending its existing agreement, with the City to pay the amount deferred if the
subject property is still connected to the City’s sewer system at the end of
the eighteen month extension period.	(i)	((h) Relettered (i) by Ord. No.
171,036, Eff. 6/6/96.)  The sewerage facilities charge fees applicable to
single family dwellings as of September 1, 1986, shall be applicable to a sewer
connection by a single family dwelling to a sewer when:	1.	The sewer was
installed pursuant to an assessment proceeding where the petition therefore was
on file with the City as of September 1,1986; and	2.	The connection is made
within one year after acceptance of the completed sewer by the Board.	(j)	((i)
Relettered (j) by Ord. No. 171,036, Eff. 6/6/96.)  Where the applicant is a
non-profit corporation it shall be exempt from sewerage facilities charges
required for a dwelling structure it is constructing, or substantially
rehabilitating, to serve low-income elderly and/or handicapped families or
individuals if the construction or rehabilitation of said structure is being
government funded and the dwelling is on property being leased from the city, or
on property which has been, or will be, acquired from the City with the City
having an option to re-acquire the property. A corporation is non-profit, for
the purpose of this section, if:	(1)	The purposes of the corporation include the
promotion of the welfare of elderly and/or handicapped families and/or
individuals;	(2)	No part of the net earnings of the corporation may inure to the
benefit of any private shareholder, contributor or individual; and	(3)	The
corporation is not controlled by, or under the direction of, persons or firms
seeking to derive profit or gain therefrom.	(k)	((j) Relettered (k) by Ord. No.
171,036, Eff. 6/6/96.)  (Repealed by Ord. No. 170,083, Eff. 11/26/94, Oper.
7/1/94.)	(l)	(Added by Ord. No. 169,042, Eff. 9/14/93.)  Where an alcohol
retail business was damaged or destroyed in the 1992 civil disturbance, the
sewerage facilities charge shall be waived where the specific site, or an area
encompassing the specific site, where such business was or is located, is to be
converted to another use not involving the sale of alcoholic beverages.  In
case the new use is to be a non-industrial laundromat, such waiver will be to
the extent of the use of a maximum of sixty (60) washing machines; provided,
however, if the new use is something other than a laundromat, the waiver
available shall be equivalent to the amount of the sewerage facilities charge
payable for a laundromat containing sixty (60) washing machines.  As a
condition to obtaining such a waiver of the sewerage facilities charge, the
alcohol retail licensee must submit proof of the cancellation of the license
issued by the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Department for the particular
alcohol retail business which was damaged or destroyed, at the time of the
issuance of the certificate of occupancy.	Such conversion to a new use having
occurred, if there should be a further or different conversion then the credit
utilized in determining the appropriate sewerage facilities charge shall be
based upon the  applicable sewerage facilities flow credit prior to the 1992
civil disturbance.	This section shall be non-operative two (2) years after its
effective date.	(m)	(Added by Ord. No. 171,036, Eff. 6/6/96.)  Notwithstanding
Subsection (a) of this section, where the application is for the connection of a
temporary field office at a construction site to a sewer, no Sewerage Facilities
Charge shall be collected.
