                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

HOUSE CONNECTION SEWER. (§ 64.11.1)

  HOUSE CONNECTION SEWER.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 179,073, Eff. 9/23/07.)	Not more than one lot shall be
connected to any one house connection sewer except as provided below.	Exception
1:  On a case by case review, the City Engineer shall have the authority and
discretion to grant an exception to the above requirement where a single house
connection to the City’s sewer serves multiple structures on an individual lot
or parcel and that lot or parcel is being or has been split.  In granting an
exception the City Engineer may allow the continued use of the original house
connection to the sewer for the structures that now exist on more than one lot
due to the lot or parcel split, provided that all the following conditions are
met: 	a.	There are four or fewer structures connected to the City’s sewer by
the single house connection.	b.	The structures on the split lot cannot be
reasonably connected to an existing available sewer due to the physical
limitations of either the lot or the existing available sewer.	c.	There is not
physical space available or agreement from the downstream property owner(s) to
place one or more additional house connections from the upstream split lots or
parcels in an easement on the downstream portions of the original lot or parcel
to allow for individual connections to the City’s sewer.	d.	The existing house
connection sewer has been inspected by closed circuit television (CCTV) and if
any damage to the existing shared house connection was revealed by this
inspection, that damage has been repaired to the satisfaction of the Bureau of
Sanitation Wastewater Collection Systems Division.	e.	All property owners using
this shared house connection sewer sign and record reciprocal agreements with
the County Recorder providing that all properties using the shared house
connection sewer are mutually responsible for its full maintenance and repair
and that the City shall be held harmless for its approval to allow multiple lots
or parcels to be connected to the City’s sewer via a single house
connection.	Exception 2:  On a case by case review, the City Engineer shall
have the authority and discretion to grant an exception to the above requirement
in the case of a new Small Lot Subdivision as defined in Sections 12.03, 12.09,
12.12.1, 12.21 and 12.22 of this Code.  The City Engineer may allow a new
individual house connection sewer to serve more than one lot or parcel subject
to the following conditions:	a.	The size of the new shared house connection
sewer for the Small Lot Subdivision shall be determined by the Bureau of
Engineering and be included in the approved conditions for the subdivision.	b.	A
sewer maintenance hole shall be required on the mainline sewer in the street
adjacent to the small lot subdivision property, if the size of the house
connection will not permit a standard “wye” connection to the City’s main
line sewer.	c.	A Homeowners Association Agreement or Maintenance Agreement for
all subdivided lots or parcels in the Small Lot Subdivision that are connected
to the shared sewer house connection shall be created and run with each lot or
parcel in perpetuity.  This Agreement shall:  include common shared
maintenance responsibility for the shared house connection sewer among all lots
or parcels served by the shared sewer house connection; bind all the property
owners and successors in interest of the subject lots or parcels to the
agreement; indemnify and hold harmless the City of Los Angeles for granting the
owners of the multiple lots or parcels the right to construct and/or connect to
the shared house connection sewer; and the Agreement shall be filed with the Los
Angeles County Recorder and be binding on all lots or parcels connected to the
shared house connection sewer.	Notwithstanding the above, the City Engineer
shall maintain the exclusive authority and discretion to deny a request of any
applicant for a shared sewer connection, even if the applicant has met all of
the above requirements for either Exception 1 or 2, if the City Engineer
believes it is in the best interest of the City to do so.  If an applicant
meets all of the required criteria for a shared house connection and the City
Engineer denies the request in the best interest of the City, that decision may
be appealed to the Board of Public Works.  The finding of the Board shall be
final.
