                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

TRANSFER OF INDUSTRIAL FLOW SEWERAGE FACILITIES CHARGE CREDITS WITHIN OR BETWEEN
REVITALIZATION, ENTERPRISE OR EMPOWERMENT ZONES. (§ 64.16.2)

  TRANSFER OF INDUSTRIAL FLOW SEWERAGE FACILITIES CHARGE CREDITS WITHIN OR
BETWEEN REVITALIZATION, ENTERPRISE OR EMPOWERMENT ZONES.
	(Added by Ord. No. 169,347, Eff. 3/12/94.)	Manufacturing and industrial
businesses, including laundromats, where the estimated quantity of discharge for
Sewerage Facilities Charge purposes is based upon the process used or number of
machines and have an existing City of Los Angeles industrial flow Sewerage
Facilities Charge credit may transfer all or part of this credit within or
between a Revitalization, Enterprise or Empowerment Zone(s) or into a
Revitalization, Enterprise or Empowerment Zone as defined in State or Federal
law subject to the following conditions:	(a)	A Sewerage Facilities Charge credit
for the empty building shell(s) or most recent improvements if the land is
vacant shall remain with the donor site.	(b)	A Sewerage Facilities Charge must
be paid or already exist for the building shell(s) at the receiver
site.	(c)	Local sewer availability and capacity at the receiver site to handle
the transferred sewage flow must be verified by the City Engineer.  An
additional mainline sewer must be constructed at no cost to the City to a point
of available capacity as determined by the City Engineer if local capacity does
not exist.	(d)	Only one transfer from a donor site to a receiver site shall be
permitted and no transfer from a receive site back to a donor site shall be
permitted.	(e)	Any increase in sewer discharge at either the donor or receiver
site over the adjusted sewer discharge flows established after the transfer at
either site, shall require the payment of additional Sewerage Facilities Charge
at the rate in effect at the time of the flow increase.	(f)	A current Title
Report must be submitted to the City Engineer verifying the ownership of the
donor site from which flow credits are to be taken.	(g)	If the person(s)
requesting the transfer of flow credit is not the owner of the donor site, a
notarized assignment of sewer discharge credits from the property owner to the
person(s) requesting the transfer of the sewer discharge credits is required. 
This assignment can not be executed until it has been approved and signed by the
City Engineer.  Falsification of these documents will invalidate the transfer
request and may result in referral to the City Attorney or District Attorney for
prosecution.	(h)	A non-refundable fee of $250 must be paid to initiate and
document the transfer of Sewerage Facilities Charge flow credits.  This fee
shall be deposited directly into the Sewer Construction and Maintenance Fund. 
The fee herein shall be adjusted, if required, in order to recover the City’s
administrative costs, and adopted in the same manner as provided in Section
12.37-I,1 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code for establishing fees.	(i)	The
transfer of the sewer discharge must be initiated by submitting construction
plans to the Department of Building and Safety for the receiver site within one
year of approval of the transfer request.  A written request to the City
Engineer may be made for an additional one-year time extension.  If the plans
have not been submitted within two years, a new application for transfer of
sewer discharge rights must be made.
