                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

WATER COURSES. (§ 64.10)

  WATER COURSES.
	(Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 182,237, Eff. 9/28/12.)	A.	Water Course
Interference.	1.	Interference Prohibited.  No person shall do anything to any
natural water course or any channel that may carry storm water that would in any
manner obstruct or interfere with the flow of water through such course or
channel without first obtaining a permit from the Bureau of Engineering pursuant
to the provisions of Subsection B. of this Section.	2.	Property Owner Duties. 
A property owner and a lessee or tenant of any property through which a natural
water course or any channel that may carry storm water passes shall keep and
maintain the course or channel free from any obstruction that would in any
manner prevent or disrupt the flow of water through the course or channel
without first obtaining a permit from the Bureau of Engineering pursuant to the
provisions of Subsection B. of this Section.	B.	Water Course Disruption
Permit.	1.	Permit Required.  Any person desiring to do any of the following
actions must first obtain a permit issued by the Bureau of Engineering:	a.	Dam,
fill, or obstruct any natural water course or channel that may carry storm
water;	b.	Construct, reconstruct, alter, repair, install or maintain any
drainage structure in any natural water course or channel that may carry storm
water;	c.	Construct, reconstruct, or repair any drainage structure; or	d.	Alter,
fill, obstruct, or otherwise change any natural water course or channel, or
natural drainage channel or course.	2.	Permit Application.  Any person applying
for issuance of a permit pursuant to the provisions of this Section shall file
an application with the Bureau of Engineering.  The application shall contain
all information required by the Bureau of Engineering, including but not limited
to the proposed location of the construction, reconstruction, repair or
alteration, the materials to be used, and a diagram of the work to be
performed.	3.	Bureau Determination.  The Bureau of Engineering shall issue a
permit pursuant to the provisions of this Subsection if it finds all of the
following:	a.	The proposed structure, fill, alteration or repair would not
become part of the City’s permanently improved storm water drainage
system;	b.	The proposed structure, fill, alteration or repair would not
interfere with the flow of natural storm water; and	c.	The proposed structure,
fill, alteration or repair would not injure adjoining property.	If the Bureau
determines that the proposed structure, fill, alteration or repair would become
part of the City’s permanently improved storm water drainage system, the
Bureau shall require an applicant to apply for a Class “B” permit and if a
permit is issued, to perform work pursuant to the provisions of Section 62.110
et seq. of this Code.	4.	Permit Conditions.  A permit issued by the Bureau of
Engineering pursuant to the provisions of this Section may impose conditions and
requirements for its use, and the permit applicant must ensure compliance with
all such conditions and requirements.  No person shall fail, neglect or refuse
to comply with any term or condition contained in any permit issued pursuant to
the provisions of this Section.	5.	Fees.  Before acceptance for examination by
the City Engineer, the Bureau of Engineering shall charge and collect a fee in
the amount of $3,035 for each permit application made pursuant to the provisions
of this Section.  The provisions of Section 61.14 and 61.15 shall also apply to
Bureau of Engineering services provided pursuant to the provisions of this
Section.
