                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SEWAGE FACILITIES CHARGE FOR NEW TRACTS. (§ 64.11.2)

  SEWAGE FACILITIES CHARGE FOR NEW TRACTS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 140,551, Eff. 6/17/70.)	(a)	Whenever real property
tributory to the city sewerage system that can be served by existing sewers, or
by the construction of an off-site sewer not longer than one mile to an
available assured outlet sewer, whether financed or otherwise, is included
within the borders of a new tract map, sewers, if not existing, shall be
constructed within or adjacent to the tracts to serve each lot, and as a
condition of the approval of the tentative map of each tract and prior to
recording of each such tract map, a fee which shall be determined by the Board
of Public Works based upon the rates established in section 64.11.3, hereafter
referred to as the sewerage facilities charge, shall be paid by the owner
thereof to the City, unless the Board of Public Works upon recommendation of the
City Engineer, determines that it would be contrary to the public welfare and
interest to assume the responsibility of providing the necessary off-site outlet
sewers as required by Subsection (f) hereof. Where a tract map for an
industrial, commercial, or multiple dwelling tract is to be recorded but the
tract is to be developed at some future time, the Board shall charge a fee of
$4,127 per acre which shall be adjusted in accordance with the rates in Section
64.11.3 when such tract is developed.  (Fee Amended by Ord. No. 171,036, Eff.
6/6/96.)  Provided, however, that where it is determined by the Board of Public
Works that a particular tract or parcel of land is being subdivided or
re-subdivided solely for the purpose of absorbing a vacated street, for
reverting an earlier tract to acreage, or for converting an existing multiple
dwelling to a condominium, and not for development purposes, that tract or
parcel of land shall be exempt from the requirements that a sewerage facilities
charge be paid therefor.  (Amended by Ord. No. 165,923, Eff.
7/1/90.)	Notwithstanding any other provision of this subsection, the payment of
the sewerage facilities charge as a condition for the filing of a tract map by
the Community Redevelopment Agency or the Department of Airports is hereby
waived. Provided, however, the full sewerage facilities charge shall be paid
upon the development of any lot or parcel contained in a tract to which this
paragraph is applicable.  (Added by Ord. No. 166,072, Eff. 8/25/90.)	(b)	In
determining the sewerage facilities charge, the Board shall:	1.	Reduce the
sewerage facilities charge when the owner demonstrates that the property has
paid special assessments for an interceptor sewer to which it may connect
directly or indirectly, by the amount of said special assessment.	2.	Reduce the
charge by all or part of the amount paid as a contributing property to the
construction of an off-site sewer to serve the property prior to the requirement
by the City that such charge shall be paid.	3.	Provide a credit for any amount
previously paid as an acreage charge or a sewerage facilities charge.	4.	Reduce
the acreage fee to 15% of that established in Subsection (a) above in the event
the sewage from such tract, when developed, will be treated in the facilities of
a Los Angeles County Sanitation District.  (Added by Ord. No. 157,145, Eff.
11/22/82.)	(c)	The Board may permit a subdivider to install off-site sewers in
lieu of all or part of the sewerage facilities charge based on the actual cost
of said off-site sewer. Should the actual cost of said off-site sewer be less
than the sewerage facilities charge required by Subsection (a) hereof, the
difference between such actual cost and said sewerage facilities charge shall be
paid by the subdivider to the City for deposit in the General Fund.	(d)	The
Council may authorize the subdivider or other property owner, by contract with
the City, to construct off-site sewers costing in excess of the sewerage
facilities charge required by Subsection (a) hereof and subsequent to the
construction and acceptance of said off-site sewer, to reimburse said subdivider
or property owner the difference between the actual cost of said off-site sewer
and the sewerage facilities charge.	If the sewerage facilities charge has been
paid by the subdivider or property owner prior to entering into the contract
with the City to construct an off-site sewer or prior to submission by the owner
of evidence justifying reduction of the charge for any property in accordance
with this section, the Council may authorize the refund of all or part of the
sewerage facilities charge previously paid.	(e)	Actual cost of off-site sewers
as used in Subsections (c) and (d) shall be determined from sealed bids received
and opened by the Board of Public Works, after publicly advertising therefor,
plus engineering and incidental costs not to exceed ten percent of the accepted
bid price for the performance of the work.	(f)	In those cases where a sewerage
facilities charge is paid, the City assumes the responsibility of providing the
necessary off-site or outlet sewers when sewage disposal facilities are
available and when connection to the City sewerage system is deemed to be
necessary by the City.	(g)	Whenever good planning and engineering practice
requires that sanitary sewers of greater size or depth than those required for
the servicing of the property immediately concerned be constructed within or
adjacent to the subdivision, the additional cost of providing sewers within or
adjacent to the subdivision in accordance with the City’s requirements of
larger size or greater depth than that required by the property immediately
concerned shall be considered the same as or in addition to the cost of
constructing an off-site sewer as provided in Subsections (c) and (d)
hereof.	(h)	Subdivisions other than those included in Subsection (a) hereof may
be:	1.	Approved without the construction of sewers or the payment of the
sewerage facilities charge where the County Health Officer and the City Engineer
determined that ample area is available for private sewage disposal, where soil,
ground water and other factors are favorable. The sewerage facilities charge
shall be applicable to lots and parcels in these subdivisions where connections
to future sewers are requested or required.	2.	Permitted or required to
construct sewers within the tract and pay the sewerage facilities charge upon
the determination by the Council upon the advice of the Board, that existing
development or trends justify the City assuming the responsibility of providing
the connecting sewers.
