                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DRAINS, SEWERS, ETC. – NOTICE OF ABANDONMENT. (§ 64.23)

  DRAINS, SEWERS, ETC. – NOTICE OF ABANDONMENT.	(a)	Notice of Contents
Thereof. When any zanja, drain, storm drain, storm water channel, watercourse,
sewer, pipe or conduit which is the property of or under the control of this
City is abandoned or the use thereof discontinued by the City, the Board is
hereby authorized to give written notice thereof to the owners of or the persons
in possession of all property served by or in any manner connected to or with
any such zanja, drain, storm drain, storm water channel, watercourse, sewer,
pipe or conduit, which notice may order, with regard to such zanja, drain, storm
drain, storm water channel, watercourse, sewer, pipe or conduit, (1) that the
use of any existing connections be discontinued and disconnected; (2) that the
placing or discharging therein of any water waste matter articles, substance or
material of any kind or nature whatsoever, or other use, be discontinued; and
(3) any necessary work or repairs required to be done by said owners or persons
in possession after such disconnection or discontinuance, which order shall
designate the materials to be used and specify the manner in which said work
shall be done and the time when such work or repairs shall be commenced and
completed. Such notice may be served by delivering the same personally to said
owners or persons in possession, or by posting the same upon said
property.	(b)	Owner’s Compliance with Notice. Any owner, agent or occupant of
any such premises within seven days after service of the notice as provided in
Subsection (a) of this section, shall comply with the provisions of said notice
or order and shall commence the necessary work of disconnection, repair or
reconstruction, and shall do the same in a manner, with the materials and within
the time specified in said notice.	(c)	Failure to Comply with Notice. No person
who is the owner, agent or occupant of any such premises where notice is given,
as provided in this section, shall fail, refuse or neglect to disconnect any
connections and to discontinue the use of any such zanja, drill, storm drain,
storm water channel, watercourse sewer, pipe or conduit in any manner, or fail,
refuse or neglect to begin the work required in said notice within the time
given, or having begun such work to fail refuse or neglect to prosecute said
work to completion in the manner, with the materials and within the time
specified in said notice, unless a permit for a variance therefrom in writing
shall have first been obtained from the Board.	(d)	Discharge into Abandoned
Drains. No persons shall place or discharge any water, waste matter, or any
article, substance or material of any kind whatsoever in any zanja, drain, storm
drain, storm water channel, watercourse, sewer, pipe or conduit, which has been
abandoned or the use of which has been discontinued, or make or maintain any
connection with or to any such zanja, drain, storm drain, storm water channel,
watercourse, sewer, pipe or conduit, unless a permit in writing shall have first
been obtained from the Board.	(e)	Tampering with Drain. No person shall in any
manner tamper with, open, cut, break or destroy any zanja, drain, storm drain,
storm water channel, watercourse, sewer, pipe or conduit, whether abandoned, in
use, or otherwise, unless a permit in writing shall first have been obtained
from the Board.
