                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PERMIT FEE EXEMPTIONS. (§ 64.22.1)

  PERMIT FEE EXEMPTIONS.	(a)	Waiver of Fees – War Purposes Only. Whenever any
officer, agency or instrumentality of the United States of America, engaged in
the performance of duties directly related to the prosecution of the war in
which the United States is engaged, applies to the Board for a permit for any of
the purposes mentioned in Sections 64.12 to 64.22 inclusive, the Board shall
waive the payment of any permit or inspection fees, deposits or special charges
otherwise required by this article, and may modify the requirements of Section
64.17, if the Board finds that the proposed installation is designed and
intended to be used to serve premises or facilities owned or operated by the
Federal Government and used principally for purposes directly related to the
prosecution of the war.	(b)	Effect of Grant. The grant of permission to make any
such installation, extended under this section, shall not be construed to confer
any permanent or vested right to the use of the streets or public property of
this City, or to maintain, for a period of more than six months after the
termination of the war, any installation made hereunder or any connection with a
public sewer, except with the consent of the City Council which may be
withdrawn, or extended, upon such terms as the Council may then or at any time
thereafter impose. The use, directly or indirectly of any installation made
pursuant to this section by anyone other than the applicant and those persons,
firms or corporations which have equitably participated with the Federal
Government in the cost of said sewer construction or installation as determined
by the Board from certified copies of existing contracts between said parties
and the Federal Government, shall be subject to such terms and conditions as the
City Council may at any time impose.	(c)	Conveyance of Title to Right of Way –
Public Sewer. In the event that the Federal Government and the other parties in
interest, as mentioned in Subsection (b) above, shall offer to convey all their
respective right, title and interest to any sewer constructed hereunder,
including all necessary rights of way for sewer purposes, without cost to the
City of Los Angeles, and if the Board finds that the sewer may properly be used
as a public sewer, to the substantial advantage of the City, then the Board is
authorized to accept said sewer as a public sewer at such time as the Council
has accepted all necessary easements therefor and the parties in interest,
abovementioned, will be entitled to continue to use said sewer facilities
without the payment to the City of any permit or other special fees or charges
except those required by Section 64.15.	(d)	City Engineer Approval Required. No
permit shall be granted hereunder unless plans and specifications of the
proposed installation have first been submitted to and approved by the City
Engineer.
