                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

TAPPING SEWERS, STORM DRAINS AND CATCH BASINS. (§ 64.20)

  TAPPING SEWERS, STORM DRAINS AND CATCH BASINS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 182,237, Eff. 9/28/12.)	(a)	In addition to all other
required fees and charges, where the Bureau of Engineering determines that an
applicant for a permit pursuant to the provisions of Section 64.12 must
construct a connection to a sewer, storm drain or catch basin at a location
where there is no existing connection, the Bureau shall charge and collect the
following:	1.	A fee of $72 for each required connection to a storm drain or
catch basin.	2.	Special Inspection Charges pursuant to the provisions of Section
62.05 (a)(1)(cc) for connection to a sewer that is 18 inches in diameter or
less.	(b)	Any permit issued by the Bureau of Engineering that requires an
applicant to construct a connection to an existing sewer line at a place where
there is no existing connection may impose conditions and requirements for
making such connection, and the permit applicant must ensure compliance with all
such conditions and requirements.  No person shall fail, neglect or refuse to
comply with any condition or requirement contained in any permit requiring a
connection that is subject to the provisions of this Subsection.	Conditions and
requirements that the Bureau may impose pursuant to the provisions of this
Subsection include, but are not limited to, the following:	1.	Determining the
means and methods of making a connection;	2.	Requiring applicants to connect to
a smaller sewer line that has sufficient capacity, if such a line is
available;	3.	Requiring applicants to utilize existing “wye” or
“chimney” connections;	4.	Requiring that a bonded sewer contractor perform
work involving sewers 15 inches in diameter or less;	5.	Requiring house
connections to sewer lines 18 inches in diameter or larger to include a private
trap; and	6.	Requiring installation of a backflow device where a plumbing
fixture or drain would be lower than the lid elevation of an adjacent
maintenance hole cover.
