                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SEPTAGE DISPOSAL CONTROL. (§ 64.31)

  SEPTAGE DISPOSAL CONTROL.
	(Added by Ord. No. 172,118, Eff. 8/31/98.)	A.	General
Provisions.	1.	Objectives.  This section sets forth regulations and
requirements for accepting septage for discharge to the City’s Publicly Owned
Treatment Works (P.O.T.W.). Through a Permit, monitoring and an inspection
program, the City seeks to ensure compliance with all applicable Federal and
State regulations and seeks to assure implementation of the following
objectives:	(a)	To protect the health, safety and welfare of the public;	(b)	To
protect the health and safety of the P.O.T.W. operating and maintenance
personnel;	(c)	To protect the P.O.T.W. and its operations and treatment
processes from harmful pollutants;	(d)	To prevent any hazardous wastes from
being discharged to the P.O.T.W.;	(e)	To provide cost recovery for its services,
including wastewater treatment administration, operations, maintenance, expense
and equipment expenditures, implementation and enforcement of the program
established herein.	2.	Scope.  This section provides for the regulation of the
discharge of septage to the City’s P.O.T.W., through the issuance of Septage
Disposal Permits, enforcement of discharge prohibitions, designation of
discharge sites, requirements for waste tracking and load manifesting.  This
section further establishes fees for the recovery of all program costs. Except
as otherwise provided herein, the Director of the Bureau of Sanitation
(Director) under the jurisdiction of the Board of Public Works (Board) shall
administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this section. This section
applies to all Septage Haulers who discharge septage to the City’s
P.O.T.W.	B.	Septage Disposal Rules and Regulations.  The Board shall adopt
Rules and Regulations consistent with the provisions of this section, to
effectuate its intent and purpose in regulating the discharge of septage to the
City’s P.O.T.W. and to administer the operations of any designated discharge
site. These Rules and Regulations shall be titled “RULES AND REGULATIONS
GOVERNING DISPOSAL OF SEPTAGE INTO THE P.O.T.W. OF THE CITY OF LOS ANGELES”,
herein referred to as the Board’s Septage Disposal Rules and
Regulations.	C.	Septage Disposal Permit.  No person may discharge or cause to
be discharged any septage to the City’s P.O.T.W. without first obtaining a
Septage Disposal Permit in writing from the Director.  A separate Septage
Disposal Permit shall be required for each vehicle used to haul septage for
discharge to the City’s P.O.T.W.	1.	Permit Application.  To obtain a Septage
Disposal Permit, an application must be filed with the Director in the
prescribed form and must be accompanied by the applicable fees. The applicant
must submit the following information for evaluation:	(a)	Name, address of any
and all principals, owners, major shareholders of the company applying for the
Permit (whichever is applicable).	(b)	State Vehicle License Number and Vehicle
Identification Number (VIN) of the septage hauling vehicle to be
permitted.	(c)	Copy of the applicant company’s City Business Tax Registration
Certificate (BTRC).	(d)	Copy of the applicant company’s Los Angeles County
Health Department License and vehicle registration number.	(e)	The total septage
hauling capacity, in gallons, and that of each compartment in the vehicle, to be
permitted.	(f)	Any other information deemed by the Director to be necessary to
evaluate the applicant’s Permit application.	2.	Permit Conditions.  Septage
Disposal Permits are subject to all provisions of this Code, all applicable
statutes, Rules and Regulations, fees and charges established by the City. This
Permit must be kept on the permitted vehicle used to haul septage and available
for immediate inspection at all times.  The Director has the authority to
impose additional Permit conditions as follows:	(a)	Prohibitions and/or
“discharge limitations” for discharge of specific
pollutants.	(b)	Requirements for maintaining, submitting and affording City
access to waste hauling records or Septage Manifests.	(c)	Requirements for
wastewater sampling and analysis.	(d)	Other Permit conditions deemed appropriate
and as recommended by the Director to ensure compliance with this
section.	3.	Duration of Permit.  A Septage Disposal Permit is valid for one
year. A Permit may be issued for a period less than a year or may be stated to
expire on a specific date, not to exceed one year from the date of Permit
issuance.	4.	Renewal of Permit.  Applications for Permit renewal must be filed
with the Director a minimum of sixty (60) days prior to the Permit’s
expiration date. A permittee must pay any delinquent fees or charges, in full,
prior to Permit renewal.	5.	Non-Transferability.  A Septage Disposal Permit,
identification decal or card and any site access card or key shall be issued to
a specific permitted vehicle and is not transferable from one business or
vehicle to another.	D.	Prohibitions and Limitations.  The following
prohibitions and limitations shall apply to all persons discharging septage to
the City’s P.O.T.W.	1.	Discharge Prohibitions	(a)	Except as expressly allowed
through a Septage Disposal Permit, Septage Haulers are subject to the
“discharge prohibitions” specified in Section 64.30, Subsection B.1. of the
Code for all loads discharged to the City’s P.O.T.W.	(b)	Discharge of septage
to any portion of the City’s storm drain system or the Waters of the State is
expressly prohibited.	(c)	No person may discharge, attempt to discharge or cause
the discharge of septage, directly or indirectly to the City’s P.O.T.W.
through any sewer maintenance hole or through any other sewer connection not
specifically approved as a designated discharge site.	(d)	Discharge of septage
consisting of materials mixed from different types of septage is prohibited as
specified under Section 5 of the Board’s Septage Disposal Rules and
Regulations.	2.	Specific Pollutant Limitations.  Septage Haulers are subject to
specific pollutant limitations specified in Section 64.30, Subsection B.2. of
the Code for all loads discharged to the City’s P.O.T.W., except when
discharging domestic septage, other than portable toilet waste, to the City’s
P.O.T.W.	E.	Septage Manifests.  As part of a septage tracking system, a
manifest, in a form prescribed by the Director, must be completed and submitted
by every Septage Hauler for each generator or source of septage to be discharged
to the City’s P.O.T.W.	The manifest for each load being transported must be
fully completed and be available, in the transport vehicle, for inspection by
the City inspector at the time of discharge of such loads at the designated
discharge sites.  The manifest must be completed and submitted according to the
provisions of the Board’s Septage Disposal Rules and
Regulations.	F.	Industrial Wastewater Permit.  Upon determination by the
Director, a generator of Industrial Wastewater or non-domestic septage, who
intends to discharge such wastes at a designated discharge site, may be required
to obtain an Industrial Wastewater Permit, per the requirements of Section
64.30, Subsection C.1. of the Code.	G.	Physical or Chemical Analysis. The
Director may require physical and chemical analysis of any septage hauled by any
Septage Hauler before permission is granted to discharge to the City’s
P.O.T.W.  The Director may also collect and analyze samples of septage to
determine its compliance with any applicable wastewater discharge pollutant
limitations or requirements.	H.	Right to Reject.  The Director may reject
septage from any Septage Hauler if there is reason to believe that the septage
may contain hazardous waste, industrial waste or any other waste which may
require a chemical analysis to determine its quality and therefore acceptability
for discharge to the City’s P.O.T.W.	I.	Discharge Sites.  The Board shall
designate discharge sites and may establish the hours of operation where
properly permitted Septage Haulers shall be allowed to discharge properly
manifested septage.	J.	Service Area.  Service Area shall mean the County of Los
Angeles. The City shall not accept any septage originating from outside the
County of Los Angeles unless specifically permitted by the Director as part of
the Septage Disposal Permit provisions.	K.	Fees and Charges.  Septage Haulers
shall pay all applicable Septage Disposal Permit fees and charges established in
this section. All fees and charges collected from Septage Haulers shall be
deposited in the Sewer Construction and Maintenance Fund established by Section
64.19.2 of this Code.  Monies collected are to be expended for the purposes set
forth in the above Subsection A1(e) and to provide for any appropriate refunds
relative to such fees.	1.	Determination of Fees and Charges.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 182,076, Eff. 4/6/12.)  When necessary, as determined by the Board, the
Board with the concurrence of the Office of the City Administrative Officer
shall propose an appropriate and revised schedule of fees and charges.  The
Board shall then transmit the schedule of fees and charges to the Mayor and to
the City Council for their approval and adoption.	2.	Septage Disposal Permit
Fee.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,076, Eff. 4/6/12.)  An Annual Septage Disposal
Permit Fee of $2,500 is required for each Septage Hauler vehicle that is
permitted to discharge septage to the City’s P.O.T.W.  This fee shall be paid
annually at the time of submittal of each application for issuance or renewal of
a Septage Disposal Permit.  The fee shall be annually adjusted as shown in the
table below:
  
    
      
        Fee
      
      
        Permit Fee ($/year)
      
    
    
      
        July 1, 2012
      
      
        3,000
      
    
    
      
        July 1, 2013
      
      
        3,500
      
    
    
      
        July 1, 2014
      
      
        4,000
      
    
    
      
        July 1, 2015
      
      
        4,500
      
    
    
      
        July 1, 2016
      
      
        5,000
      
    
    
      
        July 1, 2017
      
      
        5,500
      
    
    
      
        July 1, 20182
      
      
        6,000
      
    
    
      
        July 1, 2019
      
      
        6,500
      
    
    
      
        July 1, 2020
      
      
        7,000
      
    
  	3.	Septage Treatment Cost Recovery User Fees.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,076,
Eff. 4/6/12.)  The Septage Treatment Cost Recovery User Fee rate established at
Subsection D.5.(b) of Section 64.30 will be applied to the full tank capacity of
the Septage Hauler’s vehicle, for each vehicle permitted by the
Director.	4.	Emergency or Special Event User Fee.  (Amended by Ord. No.
182,076, Eff. 4/6/12.)  An Emergency or Special Event User Fee shall be charged
to any Septage Hauler requesting access to any designated septage discharge site
during non-business hours.  The amount of the fee will be determined by the
Director and will be equal to the City’s costs to provide such a service. 
The fee shall recover all direct and indirect costs and shall include, at a
minimum, City costs equal to the overtime salary rate of an Industrial Waste
Inspector for three (3) hours.  The fee will be billed to the Septage Hauler
and will be charged in addition to the applicable user fee rates imposed
pursuant to the provisions of Subdivision (3) of this Subsection.	5.	Application
of the Rates During an Emergency or Special Event.  In the case of a major rain
storm or earthquake, or other emergency as determined by the Director, or during
a Special Event, as declared by the City Council, a Septage Hauler may discharge
septage resulting from such emergency or Special Event at a designated septage
discharge site. The Director shall screen such septage before it may be
discharged to ensure that such a discharge will not adversely affect the
City’s P.O.T.W. or violate any of the City’s “discharge limitations”.
The Director shall bill the Septage Hauler the appropriate User Fee according to
Subdivision 3. of this Subsection K.	6.	Payment Method and Due Dates – Billing
of Fees and Charges.  Subject to the provisions of this subsection, all user
fees and charges shall be due in quarterly installments payable on the first day
of January, April, July and October, with each such payment applicable to the
immediately preceding quarter. This billing method will not be available to
those Septage Haulers that become delinquent with the payment of their fees and
charges as defined hereunder in Subdivision 7. of Subsection K. of this
section.  Delinquent Septage Haulers will no longer be invoiced, following the
date on which they become delinquent, and will be required to pay in guaranteed
form, prior to discharge, the payment required for the discharge of each load of
septage the Septage Hauler intends to discharge, in accordance with Subdivision
8.(a) of Subsection K. of this section.	7.	Delinquency – Additional Charge. 
If the user fees are not paid on or before the last day of the month in which
they are due, the Septage Hauler shall be deemed delinquent and will be issued a
delinquent notice by the Director. Additionally, a delinquency charge equal to
ten percent (10%) of the required user fees, but not less than $10.00, shall be
added to said user fees, and such additional charges shall become a part of the
user fees required by this section and be payable for said period.	If the
invoices for said user fees are not postmarked before the due date, such user
fees shall not become delinquent until 35 days following the invoice mailing
date, at which time, such user fees shall become delinquent and the additional
charges and time payment factors as provided above shall apply.	8.	Failure to
pay user fee or charge.  Failure to pay any user fee or charge payable under
this section within 10 days after issuance of the delinquent notice by the
Director shall constitute grounds for the suspension or revocation of the
Permit(s) held by such Septage Hauler or for the issuance of an order by the
Director under the provisions of Section 64.31 F.  For purposes of this
subsection, failure to pay includes a payment which has been dishonored.	(a)	Not
withstanding any other provision in this Code:	i.	Pending a final determination
by the Director to suspend or revoke a Septage Hauler’s permit(s) for failure
to pay; or,	ii.	Pending payment in full of all unpaid user fees or charges
pursuant to an agreement to pay such user fees or charges, any Septage Hauler
deemed delinquent under this subsection may, at the discretion of the Director,
discharge septage to the City’s P.O.T.W. on a load-by-load basis on the
condition that all user fees applicable for the load to be discharged are paid
prior to discharge.  All payments of applicable user fees and charges under
this subsection shall be by way of money order, cashiers check or other
guaranteed form of payment.	(b)	Payments made under this subsection will be
accepted during normal business hours at one or more locations approved by the
Director.	(c)	The remedies provided by this section are cumulative to each other
and to all other remedies and penalties available to the City under law.  This
section shall not be construed to prevent the Director from suspending or
revoking any Septage Disposal Permit for any reason set forth in Subsection F of
this section.	L.	Enforcement.  Violation of this Code, any term or condition of
a Septage Disposal Permit, the Board’s Rules and Regulations, or any order
issued by the Director, may subject the Septage Hauler to enforcement action as
provided herein.	1.	Cause for Enforcement Action.  An enforcement action may be
initiated against a permittee for any of the following reasons:	(a)	When a
discharge, singly, or by interaction with other discharges, may cause
interference, pass through, or otherwise pose a significant risk of causing the
City to violate its NPDES wastewater Permit requirements;	(b)	When a discharger
obtains its Septage Disposal Permit by misrepresentation or fails to disclose
fully all relevant facts in either the Permit application or any report,
including falsification of self-monitoring reports or manifests or tampering
with monitoring equipment;	(c)	When a discharger fails to provide timely access
to its records;	(d)	When a discharger fails to timely pay applicable
fees;	(e)	When a discharge, singly, or by interaction with other discharges, may
have an adverse effect on public health, safety or welfare; on the P.O.T.W., its
personnel, or on the environment;	(f)	When a discharger exceeds effluent
“discharge limitations”;	(g)	When a discharger fails to provide a complete
and accurate Septage Manifest;	(h)	When a discharger violates any term or
condition of its Septage Disposal Permit, this section, the Board’s Rules and
Regulations, or any order issued hereunder; and/or	(i)	When the Director
determines that a permittee has acted in any manner inconsistent with the intent
of this Code, the Septage Disposal Permit or the laws governing the operation of
the City’s P.O.T.W.	Enforcement actions as provided herein may include any or
all of the following:	2.	Notice of Violation.	(a)	Scope of Notice of
Violation.  The Director may serve upon a Septage Hauler a written Notice of
Violation.  The Notice of Violation may require the Septage Hauler to promptly
respond to the Director within a specified time period and to identify the
reason(s) and cause(s) for the violation(s) and a plan for the satisfactory
correction and prevention of future violations.	(b)	Effect of Notice of
Violation.  Submission of the response by a Septage Hauler to a Notice of
Violation does not relieve the Septage Hauler of liability for any violations
occurring before or after receipt of the Notice of Violation.  Nothing in this
section shall limit the authority of the Director to take any action, including
emergency actions or any other enforcement action, whether or not a Notice of
Violation has been issued.	3.	Administrative Orders.	(a)	Scope of Administrative
Orders.  The Director may issue Administrative Orders containing such terms and
requirements as deemed necessary by the Director for determining the compliance
status of the Septage Hauler; requiring the Septage Hauler to achieve
compliance; and/or suspending the Permit(s) and requiring the cessation of
discharge in whole or in part.	(b)	Effect of Administrative Order.	(1)	Failure
of a Septage Hauler to comply with any condition or requirement set forth in any
Administrative Order issued hereunder is a violation of this section and is
independently enforceable for each day of a violation.  An Administrative Order
has the full force of law and is enforceable in a court of law.  Administrative
Orders shall become effective and final upon issuance by the Director.	(2)	A
Septage Hauler’s compliance with the requirements of an Administrative Order
shall not relieve the Septage Hauler of liability for any violation of a Septage
Disposal Permit, this section, the Board’s Rules and Regulations or other
legally applicable requirements occurring before or after receipt of the
Administrative Order.	(3)	Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of
the Director to take any action, including emergency actions, or any other
enforcement action, whether or not an Administrative Order has been
issued.	(c)	Description of Administrative Orders.  Administrative orders which
the Director may issue include, but are not limited to, the
following:	(1)	Consent Orders.  The Director and discharger may enter into a
Consent Order establishing an agreement for achieving compliance with discharger
requirements. Consent Orders reflect the agreement of the Director and
discharger and are not appealable to the Board or otherwise subject to
administrative or judicial appeal.	(2)	Cease and Desist Orders.  The Director
may issue Cease and Desist Orders requiring dischargers, among other things, to
cease and desist all such violations and directing the user to:	(A)	Immediately
comply with all Permit, Rules and Regulations and Code requirements,
and;	(B)	Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be needed to
properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including halting
operations and/or terminating the discharge or preventing further
discharges.	(3)	Compliance Orders.  The Director may issue Compliance Orders
requiring dischargers, among other things to:	(A)	Comply with interim and/or
final dates and steps for achieving compliance;	(B)	Submit and implement a plan
of corrective actions to be taken to maintain consistent and permanent
compliance;	(C)	Submit and implement a pollution prevention plan;	(D)	Conduct
additional self-monitoring; and/or	(E)	Pay all delinquent fees and
charges.	(4)	Permit Suspension Order.  The Director may issue Permit Suspension
Orders suspending the right of the Septage Hauler to discharge septage to the
City’s P.O.T.W.  A Permit Suspension Order may be issued due to the Septage
Hauler’s failure to pay applicable fees or penalties or for other good cause,
including causes as specified in Subdivision 1 of this Subsection L of this
section.	4.	Suspension of Septage Disposal Permit(s).	(a)	Notice of Intended
Permit Suspension Order.  The Director may serve the Septage Hauler with a
Notice of Intended Permit Suspension stating the reasons therefor and the
opportunity for a Show Cause Permit Suspension Hearing before the Director with
respect thereto.  After such hearing, the Director shall make a final
determination whether to issue the Permit Suspension Order or take other
enforcement action.  In cases where a Septage Hauler holds multiple Septage
Disposal Permits and upon determination by the Director, the Permit Suspension
Order may suspend all of the Septage Hauler’s permits.	(b)	Cessation of
Discharge.  Any Septage Hauler notified of suspension of its Septage Disposal
Permit(s) shall immediately cease and desist the discharge of all septage
previously authorized by the Permit(s) to the P.O.T.W.  It is unlawful for a
Septage Hauler to continue to discharge any septage to the P.O.T.W. after the
Septage Hauler’s permit(s) has been suspended.	(c)	Reinstatement of Suspended
Permit(s).  The Director shall require that all deficiencies, violations and
causes which led to the suspension of the Septage Hauler’s permit(s), be
removed and corrected and/or require that the Septage Hauler pay all of the
delinquent fees, charges, penalties and other sums owed by the Septage Hauler to
the City, or reach an agreement with the Board to pay such fee and charges
before a suspended Permit is reinstated.  Suspension of the Permit(s) does not
relieve the Septage Hauler of its obligation to pay all applicable
fees.	(d)	Failure to Correct as Cause for Revocation.  Failure of the Septage
Hauler to take the necessary corrective actions and request reinstatement of the
suspended Permit(s) within ninety (90) days following issuance of a Permit(s)
Suspension Order shall be grounds for Permit(s) revocation and service
termination according to Subsection 5 of this section.	5.	Revocation of Septage
Disposal Permit(s).	(a)	Notice of Intended Permit Revocation.  The Director, in
the event of:	(i)	a violation of a Septage Disposal Permit, this Code, the
Board’s Rules and Regulations, any order issued hereunder; and/or	(ii)	The
Septage Hauler’s failure to pay applicable fees or penalties; and/or	(iii)	for
other good cause (including causes as specified in Paragraph (d) of Subdivision
4 of this subsection, may serve the Septage Hauler with a Notice of Intended
Permit Revocation, stating the reasons therefore and the opportunity for a Show
Cause Permit Revocation Hearing before the Director with respect thereto. 
After such hearing, the Director shall make a final determination whether to
revoke the Permit(s) or take other enforcement action.  In cases where a
Septage Hauler holds multiple Septage Disposal Permits, the Director may revoke
all of the Septage Hauler’s permits.	(b)	Cessation of Discharge.  Any Septage
Hauler notified of the revocation of its Permit(s) shall immediately cease and
desist the discharge of all septage previously authorized by the Permit(s) to
the P.O.T.W. It is unlawful for a Septage Hauler to continue to discharge any
septage to the P.O.T.W. after Permit(s) has been revoked.	(c)	Issuance of New
Septage Disposal Permit Subsequent to Revocation.  After revocation of a
Septage Hauler’s permit(s), there shall be no further discharge of any septage
by the Septage Hauler to the P.O.T.W., unless there has been a new application
filed, all fees and charges that would be required upon an initial application
and all delinquent fees, charges, penalties and other sums owed by the Septage
Hauler and/or the applicant to the City have been paid to the City, or the
Septage Hauler has reached an agreement with the Board to pay such charges and
fees, and a new Septage Disposal Permit has been issued.  Any costs incurred by
the City, including administrative costs and investigative fees, in revoking the
Septage Disposal Permit(s) shall also be paid for by the Septage Hauler before
issuance of new Septage Disposal Permit(s).	6.	Appeals and
Hearings.	(a)	Appeals.  Upon the issuance of an Administrative Order or
notification of Permit revocation by the Director, a Septage Hauler may, within
14 days from service of the Director’s order or notice, submit a written
request to the Secretary of the Board for a Board hearing to appeal said order
or notice.	The filing of said appeal does not act to stay any enforcement action
or time set for compliance nor does said filing of an appeal in any way relieve
the Septage Hauler from any liability or responsibility for the violation which
is the subject of the appeal.  Nothing in this section shall act to limit the
authority of the Director to take any action, including emergency actions or any
other enforcement actions, whether or not a request for appeal has been made. 
Failure of the Septage Hauler to request a hearing within the specified time or
failure to pay any required filing fees shall be deemed a waiver of request for
such a hearing.	In the event of a hearing request to consider an Administrative
Order or notification of Permit Revocation as determined by the Director, the
Board, or a hearing examiner designated by the Board for that purpose, upon
written request by the Septage Hauler, shall conduct the hearing to consider the
appeal of said order or notice within a reasonable period of time with
consideration shown for the convenience and necessity of all parties and their
representatives.	(b)	Hearings.	(1)	At the hearing the Director shall submit, for
the record, evidence to support the issuance of the Administrative Order or
notification of Permit Revocation which is the subject of the appeal.  The
Septage Hauler shall have the opportunity prior to the hearing to examine the
evidence to be submitted by the Director.  The Septage Hauler or counsel should
be present at the hearing and will be given the opportunity to present any
relevant evidence or witnesses, and ask questions or make comments concerning
the Director’s evidence and testimony.  Failure of the Septage Hauler or the
Septage Hauler’s representative to appear at the hearing after receiving
notice of the hearing shall be deemed a waiver of hearing rights.	(2)	At the
conclusion of the hearing, the Board shall make findings and determine whether
the evidence presented at the hearing supports the issuance of the
Administrative Order or notification of Permit Revocation which is the subject
of the appeal.	(c)	Notification.  Only those persons who request a hearing need
be notified of the date and time of the hearing.  The Board Secretary shall
make said notification at least ten (10) days prior to the date of the hearing
by certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to the address as
shown on the hearing request.	(d)	Continuances.  The Board may grant
continuances; however when a hearing examiner has been assigned to such hearing,
no continuances may be granted except by that hearing examiner, for good cause
shown, so long as the matter remains before the hearing
examiner.	(e)	Reporting.  The proceedings at the hearing shall be reported by
an electronic recording if requested by any party thereto.  A transcript of the
proceedings shall be made available to all parties upon request and upon payment
of the prescribed fee therefor.	(f)	Oaths-Certification.  In any proceedings
under this division, the Board, any Board member, the secretary of the Board or
the hearing examiner has the power to administer oaths and affirmations and to
certify to official acts.	(g)	Appointment of Hearing Examiner(s).  Whenever an
appeal or protest is made to the Board pursuant to this section, the Board may
appoint one or more hearing examiners or designate one or more of its members to
serve as hearing examiners, and direct such hearing examiner or examiners to
consider all or part of such appeal or protest or to conduct all or part of such
hearing and to submit a report or reports thereon as hereafter provided. Hearing
examiners may, be appointed from among the officers or employees of the
City.	(h)	Report of Hearing Examiner.  Within such period as may be fixed by
the Board, the hearing examiner shall submit a written report to the Board. 
Such report shall contain a brief summary of the evidence considered and shall
state the hearing examiner’s conclusions and recommendations, and if the
matter is then ready for decision, the report shall contain a proposed decision,
in such form that it may be adopted by the Board as its decision in the case,
and a brief statement of the hearing examiner’s reasons therefor.  All
hearing examiner’s reports shall be filed by the secretary of the Board as
public records.  A copy of each proposed decision so filed shall then be mailed
by the Secretary of the Board to each party.	(i)	Consideration of Report by
Board.  The Board shall fix a time when the Board will consider the report of
the hearing examiner.  Notice thereof shall be mailed by the Board Secretary to
each party not less than ten (10) days prior to the date fixed, unless otherwise
stipulated. Not later than five (5) days before such date any party may file
written exceptions to any part or all of the hearing examiner’s
report.	(j)	Disposition by Board.	(1)	After considering the hearing examiner’s
report and any exceptions, proposals, and arguments submitted, the Board may
adopt, reject, or modify such report in whole or in part.  If the matter is
then ready for decision, the Board may proceed to make its decision.	(2)	If the
Board does not decide the matter upon the hearing examiner’s report, the Board
may itself consider the matter either in whole or in part, upon the record,
including the transcript, or may decide the matter after itself receiving the
whole or any part of the evidence or may refer part or all of the matter to the
same or another hearing examiner.  If part of the matter is so referred to an
hearing examiner, such hearing examiner shall prepare and submit to the Board a
report, including a proposed decision as provided in this section, upon the
evidence heard by such hearing examiner, and the papers, records, and reports
which are part of the record of the prior hearing, and thereafter the matter
shall proceed as heretofore provided in the case of an original hearing
examiner’s report.  If additional evidence is received by the Board itself,
no member thereof may vote on the matter unless the member has heard the
additional testimony or has read a reporter’s transcript of the same, or if
there was other additional evidence, unless the member has considered such other
additional evidence.  The Board shall give such notice of its decision as is
provided or required in cases where it makes no reference to a hearing
examiner.	(k)	Duty to Exhaust Administrative Remedies.  A Septage Hauler has
the legal obligation to exhaust administrative remedies.  Failure of a Septage
Hauler to pursue its appeal rights hereunder or to appeal the Director’s
decision is a waiver of such rights.  Accordingly, any action of the Director
which was subject to review by the Board under this subdivision, but was not
appealed to the Board, shall not be subject to judicial review in any civil
proceeding.	7.	Judicial Enforcement Remedies.	(a)	Injunctive Relief.  Whenever
a Septage Hauler has violated or continues to violate the provisions of a
Septage Disposal Permit, this section, Board’s Rules and Regulations or any
order issued hereunder, the Director, through the City Attorney, may petition
the Superior Court for the issuance of a temporary or permanent injunction, as
may be appropriate, which restrains or compels the specific performance of the
order or other standard or requirement imposed by this section on activities of
the Septage Hauler.  The Director may also seek such other relief as may be
appropriate including a requirement for the Septage Hauler to conduct
environmental remediation.  The petition for injunctive relief shall not be a
bar against or a prerequisite for taking any other action against a Septage
Hauler.	(b)	Civil Liability.  Pursuant to Section 54740 of the Government Code,
any person who violates conditions of a Septage Disposal Permit, this section,
the Board’s Rules and Regulations, any order issued hereunder, or any other
provision as identified in Section 54739(a) of the Government Code, may be
civilly liable in a sum of not to exceed twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000)
a day for each violation.  The local agency may petition the superior court to
impose, assess, and recover such sums.	Remedies under this section are in
addition to and do not supersede or limit any and all other remedies, civil or
criminal, but no liability shall be recoverable under this section for any
violation for which liability is recovered under Subdivision 8 of this
section.	(c)	Criminal Liability.  It shall be unlawful for any person to
violate any condition of a Septage Disposal Permit, this section, the Board’s
Rules and Regulations, or any order issued hereunder.  Any person violating any
of the provisions or failing to comply with any of the mandatory requirements of
this Code, the Board’s Rules and Regulations or, any order issued by the
Director pursuant to this Code shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and said
violation shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000.00 for each
offense or by imprisonment in the County Jail for a period of not more than six
(6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.	Each person shall be guilty
of a separate offense for each and every day during any portion of which any
violation of a Septage Disposal Permit, this Code the Board’s Rules and
Regulations, or any order issued hereunder, by such person, and each such
violation shall be punishable accordingly.  Nothing in this Code shall prohibit
the payment of investigative costs by any person so convicted of violating any
of the mandatory requirements of this Code, the Board’s Rules and Regulation
or, any order issued by the Director pursuant to this Code, to the Bureau of
Sanitation, to reimburse said agency for all costs expended to investigate
and/or enforce the requirements of this Code, the Board’s Rules and
Regulations or, any order issued by the Director pursuant to this Code.
