                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER DISPOSAL. (§ 64.30)

  INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER DISPOSAL.
	(Amended In Entirety by Ord. No. 173,980, Eff. 7/1/01.)	A.	General
Provisions.	1.	Policy.  It is the policy of the City of Los Angeles to assure
that the highest and best use of the Publicly Owned Treatment Works (POTW) is
for the collection, treatment and disposal of domestic wastewater. The use of
this system for industrial wastewater is a privilege which is subject to the
requirements of this section.	2.	Objectives.  This section sets forth uniform
requirements for direct and indirect dischargers to the POTW.  Through a permit
and inspection program administered under the jurisdiction of the Board, the
City seeks to comply with all applicable State and Federal laws.	As a part of
the permit and inspection program provided herein, the Board and the Director
shall have the power, jurisdiction, and supervision over places of discharge of
wastewater into the POTW, necessary to adequately enforce and administer all
laws and lawful standards and orders, or special orders, to assure the
implementation of the following objectives:	(a)	Prevent any discharge into the
POTW which may interfere with the operations thereof;	(b)	Prevent any discharge
into the POTW which will pass through the POTW, inadequately treated, into
receiving waters, land or the atmosphere or otherwise be incompatible with the
POTW;	(c)	Protect the POTW, from damage by any pollutants;	(d)	Provide the
opportunity to recycle and reclaim sludges and wastewater from the
POTW;	(e)	Provide for recovery of costs, including administration,
implementation and enforcement of the program established herein, associated
with the discharge of wastewater to the POTW;	(f)	Protect the life, health, and
safety of operating and maintenance personnel;	(g)	Preserve hydraulic capacity
in the POTW;	(h)	Insure the health, safety and welfare of the
public.	3.	Scope.  This section provides for the regulation of dischargers to
the POTW through the issuance of Industrial Wastewater Permits containing
specific discharge requirements and through enforcement of general discharge
prohibitions; authorizes monitoring and enforcement activities; imposes
reporting requirements on specific permittees; and sets fees for the recovery of
program costs. This section shall apply to all dischargers within the City of
Los Angeles and to all persons outside the City of Los Angeles who discharge to
the City’s POTW except as otherwise provided herein, the Director of the
Bureau of Sanitation under the jurisdiction of the Board of Public Works shall
administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this
section.	B.	Regulations.	1.	Prohibitions:	(a)	Discharge Prohibitions.  Except
as expressly allowed in an Industrial Wastewater Permit, no person shall
discharge, permit the discharge, cause the discharge or contribute to the
discharge of the following to the POTW:	(1)	Gasoline, mercury, total
identifiable chlorinated hydrocarbons, kerosene, naphtha, benzene, toluene,
xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides, chlorates,
perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides, solvents, pesticides or jet
fuel.	(2)	Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are flammable, reactive, explosive, corrosive, or radioactive, or by
interaction with other materials could result in fire, explosion or
injury.	(3)	Any solid or viscous materials which could cause obstruction to the
flow or operation of the POTW.	(4)	Any toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity
to injure or interfere with any wastewater treatment process, including private
pretreatment systems, to constitute a hazard or cause injury to human, animal,
plant or fish life, or to exceed any limitation set forth in this
Section.	(5)	Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, or solids in sufficient
quantity either singly or by interaction with other materials to create a public
nuisance, hazard to life, or to prevent entry of any person to the POTW.	(6)	Any
material of sufficient quantity to interfere with any POTW treatment plant
process or to render any product thereof unsuitable for reclamation and
reuse.	(7)	Any material in sufficient quantity to cause the POTW to be in
noncompliance with biosolids use or disposal criteria, guidelines or regulations
in conjunction with Section 405 of the Act, the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA),
the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Marine Protection
Research and Sanctuaries Act, or State criteria (including those contained in
any state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Title II of SWDA)
applicable to the biosolids management method being used.	(8)	Any material which
will cause the POTW to violate its NPDES Permit, applicable Federal and State
statutes, rules or regulations.	(9)	Any wastewater containing pigment which is
not removed in the ordinary POTW treatment process and which creates a visual
contrast with the material appearance of the POTW discharge observable at the
point of POTW discharge.	(10)	Any wastewater having a heat content in such
quantities that the temperature of the wastewater at the introduction into the
POTW Collection system exceeds 140 degrees Fahrenheit, or at the introduction
into the POTW treatment plant exceeds 104 degrees Fahrenheit.	(11)	Any
pollutants, including oxygen demanding pollutants, released at a flow rate or
pollutant concentration which will cause or contribute to interference, as that
term is defined in Section 64.00.	(12)	Any storm water collected and discharged
to the POTW, except as specifically authorized by the Director.	(13)	Single pass
cooling water in excess of 200 gallons per day discharged to the POTW. However,
the blowdown or bleedoff from cooling towers or other evaporative coolers may be
accepted into the POTW.	(14)	Any wastewater which constitutes a hazard or causes
injury to human; animal, plant or fish life or creates a public
nuisance.	(15)	Recognizable portions of the human or animal
anatomy.	(16)	Floatable material which is readily removable.	(b)	Prohibitions
Against Interference, Hazard, or Injury to Human, Animal, Plant, or Fish Life. 
Except as expressly allowed in an Industrial Wastewater Permit, no person shall
discharge, permit the discharge to, cause the discharge or contribute to the
discharge to the POTW, any material of sufficient quantity which, singly or by
interaction with other materials, interferes with the POTW treatment plant
process or renders any product thereof unsuitable for reclamation and reuse,
causes the POTW to be in noncompliance as that term is used with respect to
provisions listed in Paragraph (a)(7) above, or which constitutes a hazard to or
which may cause injury to human, animal, plant or fish life.  In the provision
hereof, assuming violation of no other provision hereof, the violator shall be
subject only to imposition of further permit conditions, administrative orders,
permit suspension or revocation.	2.	Pollutant Limitations.	(a)	Specific
Pollutant Limits.  No person shall introduce wastewater to the POTW that
exceeds the following limitations:
  
    
      
        Arsenic	
      
      
        3 mg/L
      
    
    
      
        Cadmium	
      
      
        15 mg/L
      
    
    
      
        Copper 	
      
      
        15 mg/L
      
    
    
      
        Cyanide (Total)	
      
      
        10 mg/L
      
    
    
      
        Cyanide (Free)	
      
      
        2 mg/L
      
    
    
      
        Dissolved Sulfides	
      
      
        0.1 mg/L
      
    
    
      
        Lead	
      
      
        5 mg/L
      
    
    
      
        Nickel	
      
      
        12 mg/L
      
    
    
      
        pH Range	
      
      
        5.5-11
      
    
    
      
        Silver	
      
      
        5 mg/L
      
    
    
      
        Total chromium	
      
      
        10 mg/L
      
    
    
      
        Zinc	
      
      
        25 mg/L
      
    
    
      
        Dispersed oil and grease (Total)	
      
      
        600 mg/L
      
    
    
      
        Floatable oil and grease	
      
      
        None Visible
      
    
  
	The above limitations shall not apply where more restrictive limitations are
imposed by permit or National Categorical Pretreatment
Standards.	(b)	Radioactive Wastes.  No person shall discharge radioactive
wastes except in accordance with the State of California Administrative Code,
Title 17, Public Health, Regulations of the Bureau of Radiological
Health.	(c)	Infectious Wastes.  No person shall discharge infectious waste,
unless such waste is ground in a grinder which meets the Board’s fineness of
grind requirements as set forth in Paragraph (e) of this Subdivision 2 and is
discharged into the POTW.  Entry to the grinding mechanism shall be restricted
to a 6-inch by 9-inch opening. The material shall be segregated from other solid
wastes and shall be contained in plastic bags or other suitable disposable
containers which shall not exceed five (5) gallons capacity and shall be colored
red for identification. Container and contents shall be weighed and recorded
prior to disposal. These records shall be made available to the Board for
inspection.	(d)	Human or Animal Anatomy.  Recognizable portions of the human or
animal anatomy shall not be ground or discharged to the POTW.	(e)	Grinder
Wastes.  (Amended by Ord. No. 174,047, Eff. 8/5/01.)  The use of garbage
grinder to discharge food wastes from commercial kitchens, markets, or food
plants to the POTW is prohibited unless expressly allowed by the Director. 
When the use of a grinder is allowed, the following fineness of grind
requirements shall be met at all times.	(1)	At least 40% shall pass a No. 8
sieve.	(2)	At least 65% shall pass a No. 3 sieve.	(3)	100% shall pass a 1/2-inch
screen.	(f)	Sharps.  No person shall discharge sharps unless ground in an
approved grinder capable of meeting the Board’s fineness of grind requirements
set forth in Paragraph (e) of this subdivision, and discharged to the POTW.
Sharps shall be ground by an approved grinder not exceeding five (5)
horsepower.	3.	National Categorical Pretreatment Standards
(NCPS).	(a)	Standards.  Upon the promulgation of mandatory NCPS for any
industrial category, the NCPS, if more restrictive than limitations otherwise
imposed under this section, shall apply.  A discharger shall comply with
applicable NCPS as set forth in 40 CFR Part 401 et seq.	(b)	Compliance
Schedule.  The Director may impose a phased compliance schedule to ensure that
affected industries meet the NCPS. Failure to meet the phased compliance
schedule may result in permit revocation.	4.	Dilution.  No discharger shall use
any water to dilute any pollutant to achieve compliance with the discharge
limitations contained in this section.	5.	Uncontrolled
Discharges.	(a)	Containment of Uncontrolled Discharges.  Upon written
notification by the Director, dischargers shall provide spill containment for
uncontrolled discharges of prohibited material or other substances regulated by
this section. Facilities to contain spills shall be provided and maintained at
the discharger’s own cost and expense. Dischargers so notified shall provide
detailed spill containment plans, including facilities and operating procedures,
to the Director for review. Such plans shall be approved by the Director before
commencement of construction of the facility. Construction shall be completed
within the time period designated by the Director. Review and approval of spill
containment plans and operating procedures shall not relieve the discharger from
the responsibility to modify its facility as necessary to meet the requirements
of this section.	(b)	Notification of Uncontrolled Discharges.  In the event of
an uncontrolled discharge, the discharger shall immediately notify the Director
of the incident by telephone. The notification shall include location of
discharge, type of material, concentration and volume, and corrective actions
taken.	(c)	Written Report Describing Uncontrolled Discharges.  Within ten (10)
days following the uncontrolled discharge, the discharger shall submit to the
Director a detailed written report describing the cause of the discharge,
corrective action taken, and measures to be taken to prevent future occurrences.
Such notification shall not relieve the discharger of liability or fines
incurred as a result of this uncontrolled discharge.	(d)	Notice to Employees;
Notification to Director of Uncontrolled Discharge.  A legible, understandable
and conspicuously placed notice shall be permanently posted on the
discharger’s bulletin board or other prominent place advising employees to
call the Director, in the event of an uncontrolled discharge, as soon as
possible or within one hour of the discharge, and to provide at least the
information listed below. In the event of a substantial number of the
discharger’s employees use a language other than English as a primary
language, the notice shall be worded in both English and the language or
languages involved. The notice shall set forth the current phone number of the
Director, and shall identify the following as the minimum necessary information
which is to be provided to the Director:	(1)	Time, location, type, concentration
and volume of discharge.	(2)	Corrective action taken. Employers shall insure
that all employees in a position to cause or allow an uncontrolled discharge to
occur are advised of this notification
procedure.	C.	Administration.	1.	Industrial Wastewater
Permit.	(a)	Application.  No person shall discharge industrial wastewater to
the POTW without permission as provided in an Industrial Wastewater Permit. The
permit shall not be issued until determination has been made by the Board that
the wastewater to be discharged shall not violate any provisions of this Code,
the Board’s Rules and Regulations, the water quality objectives for receiving
waters established by the California Water Quality Control Board, Los Angeles
Region, or any applicable federal or state statutes, rules or regulations. Such
determination shall be made from the information set forth in the application
for permit.	(b)	Permit Information.  A separate permit shall be required for
each point of discharge to the POTW. In connection therewith, the applicant may
be required to furnish the following:	(1)	(Amended by Ord. No. 177,614, Eff.
7/19/06.)  The name and address of the applicant;	(2)	The name and address of
the discharger;	(3)	The address or location of the premises where the discharge
will take place;	(4)	The Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) of the
discharger;	(5)	Information with respect to constituents and characteristics of
wastewater proposed to be discharged, including, but not limited to, those
referred to in Subsection B of this section. Sampling and analysis shall be
performed in accordance with procedures established by the EPA pursuant to
Section 304(g) of the Act and contained in 40 CFR, Part 136, as amended, and by
laboratories certified by the State of California. In the absence of a State
certification process, the Director may certify a laboratory to perform
necessary sampling and analysis;	(6)	Time and duration of the proposed discharge
or discharges;	(7)	Average daily and 5-minute peak wastewater flow rates,
including daily, monthly and seasonal variations, if any;	(8)	Site plans, floor
plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and details to show all sewers and storm
drains, connections and appurtenances by their size, location and
elevation.	(9)	Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
applicant’s premises, including all pollutants which could be
discharged.	(10)	Detailed plans showing pretreatment facilities, sampling
facilities, uncontrolled discharge containment facilities, and operating
procedures.	(11)	Identification of the nature and concentration of any pollutant
located at the premises of the discharger (and/or applicant if different) if
that pollutant is prohibited from discharge under Subdivision 1 of Subsection B
of this section, or any proposed discharge which is regulated as provided in
Subdivision 2 of Subsection B of this section, plus a statement specifying
whether the specific limitations set forth in said Subdivision 2 are being met,
and, if not, what additional Operation and Maintenance (O &#038; M) or
pretreatment is proposed by the discharger to cause compliance;	(12)	The
shortest time schedule by which the discharger shall provide the necessary
additional pretreatment, if additional pretreatment or O &#038; M will be
required to meet the regulations in Subsection B of this section. Any completion
date in such a proposed schedule shall not be later than the compliance date
established by the applicable regulation.	(13)	The schedule shall provide for
reporting increments in progress in the form of dates for commencement and
completion of major events leading to the construction and operation of
additional pretreatment necessary for the discharger to meet the applicable
regulation (e.g., hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans,
executing contract for major components, commencing construction, completing
construction).	(14)	After permit issuance, progress reports shall be submitted
subject to the same limitations set forth in Subparagraph (7) of Paragraph (h)
of Subdivision 2 of this Subsection C, except that time limits specified
pursuant to this section for reporting, commencement and completion of major
events leading to the construction and operation of additional pretreatment
required for the discharger to meet the applicable regulations may be extended
by mutual consent of the discharger and the Director, and provided however, that
in no event shall any such date be extended beyond the compliance date
established by the applicable regulation.	(15)	Each product of the discharger by
type, amount, and rate of production;	(16)	Type and amount of raw materials
processed by the discharger (average and maximum per day);	(17)	Number of
employees, hours of operation of plant, and hours of operation of the proposed
pretreatment system;	(18)	Copies of any current City Business License, NPDES
Permit, South Coast Air Quality Management District Permit, Regional Water
Quality Control Board Permit and State Department of Health Services Permit for
the subject premises;	(19)	The name, business address, and motor vehicle
driver’s license number of the authorized representative;	(20)	Any other
information deemed by the Director to be necessary to evaluate the permit
application.	(21)	The application shall be signed under penalty of perjury by
the authorized representative of the discharger. After evaluation and acceptance
of the data furnished, the Board may issue an Industrial Wastewater Permit
subject to the terms and conditions imposed by the Director pursuant to
Paragraph (c) of this Subdivision as stated herein. Granting of the permit shall
not relieve the discharger from the responsibility for compliance with all
provisions of this section. By acceptance of a permit,  the applicant thereby
delegates authority to the Director to enter the premises of the applicant as
necessary for purposes of inspection and maintenance with respect to any
wastewater discharge therefrom.	(c)	Exemptions.  An Industrial Wastewater
Permit is not required for the following dischargers or discharges to the
POTW:	(1)	(Amended by Ord. No. 177,614, Eff. 7/19/06.)  An FSE that does not
potentially generate waste FOG during food preparation processes, and does not
significantly affect the POTW, as determined by the Director, provided that the
FSE has implemented and demonstrates compliance with BMP requirements as
specified in the Rules and Regulations;	(2)	Bleed-off or blowdown from cooling
towers, evaporation condensers or other recirculating water devices with rated
capacity of 25 tons or less,	(3)	Self-service laundries with washing machines of
20 pounds maximum capacity, with further allowance that the facility may also
have a maximum of two machines with maximum 50-pound capacity of
each,	(4)	Discharges from establishments wherein the industrial wastewater
discharge is less than 200 gallons per day (gpd) and pretreatment is not
required.	(d)	Permit Conditions.  Industrial Wastewater Permits shall be
subject to all provisions of this Code, all other applicable statutes, rules and
regulations, and fees and charges established by the City. The Director shall
have authority to impose permit conditions including the following:	(1)	Limits
on the average and maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics;	(2)	Limits on average and maximum rate and time of
discharge;	(3)	Limits regarding the discharge of specific
pollutants;	(4)	Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and uncontrolled discharge containment
facilities;	(5)	Requirements, which may include specific sampling locations,
frequency of sampling, times of sampling, number, types, test standards and
reporting schedules, for monitoring programs;	(6)	Compliance
schedules;	(7)	Requirements for submission of technical or discharge
reports;	(8)	(Amended by Ord. No. 174,047, Eff. 8/5/01.)  Requirements for
maintaining and affording City access to plant records relating to discharges,
including hauled waste records and manifests;	(9)	Requirements for notification
of the City of any new introduction of wastewater constituents or any
substantial change in the volume or character of the wastewater
constituents;	(10)	Requirements for notification of slug discharges;	(11)	(New
Subpara. 11 Added by Ord. No. 174,047, Eff. 8/5/01.)  The Director may require
all industrial users to install pretreatment systems, upgrade existing
pretreatment systems and/or install additional pretreatment systems, implement
Best Management Practices, and any other conditions deemed appropriate to
achieve the objectives of this ordinance as defined in Subsection A Subdivision
2 of LAMC 64.30.	(12)	(Subpara. 11 Renumbered Subpara. 12 by Ord. No. 174,047,
Eff. 8/5/01.)  Other conditions deemed appropriate by the Director to ensure
compliance with this section.	(e)	Change of Ownership or Location.  An
Industrial Wastewater Permit shall not be transferable, by operation of law or
otherwise, either from one location to another, or from one person to another.
For purposes of this subdivision, statutory mergers or name changes shall not
constitute a transfer or a change in ownership. Following a change in ownership,
and upon application for a new Industrial Wastewater Permit, a temporary permit
may be issued by the Director for a period of no more than 180 days pending the
issuance of such new permit.	(f)	Delayed Commencement of Discharge.  All
permitted discharges must commence within 180 days from the effective date of
the Industrial Wastewater Permit or the permit is deemed void.	(g)	Duration of
Industrial Wastewater Permit.  Except as otherwise provided herein, Industrial
Wastewater Permits may be issued for a specified time period and may be subject
to expiration and renewal as determined by the Director.  Industrial Wastewater
Permits for Significant Industrial Users shall have a duration or effective life
not to exceed three (3) years from the date of initial issuance or
reissuance.	(h)	Permit Renewal.  Applications for permit renewal shall be filed
with the Director a minimum of ninety (90) days prior to the permit expiration
date.	(i)	Administrative Permit Cancellation.  As part of permit
administration, the Director may cancel any Industrial Wastewater Permit with
the express written consent of the permittee or upon verification that one or
more of the following conditions exist:
	(1)	The permittee is not a batch treatment discharger and has permanently
ceased the discharging of industrial wastewater to the POTW; or changes in the
industrial process or reduction of discharge levels occur such that an
Industrial Wastewater Permit is no longer required as provided by the exemption
provisions of this subsection; or	(2)	Changes in industrial process or reduction
of discharge levels occur such that an Industrial Wastewater Permit is no longer
required as provided by the exemption provisions of this subsection;
or	(3)	Change of business ownership; or	(4)	Change or abandonment of the site or
location described by the permit.	(j)	Permit Reinstatement.  Notwithstanding
any other provisions of this Code, a permit which has been administratively
canceled pursuant to Paragraph (i) of this subdivision, shall be reinstated upon
the written request of the permittee and upon approval by  the Director. 
Request for reinstatement under this paragraph must be made within 180 days from
the effective date of cancellation.  Administrative permit cancellation,
pursuant to Paragraph (i) of this subdivision, shall not be used in lieu of the
enforcement remedy set forth for permit suspension or revocation, as provided in
Subsection E of this section.	(k)	Private Septage Disposal Facilities (PSDF). 
PSDFs discharging to the POTW shall be subject to all provisions of this Section
including the following specific requirements.	(1)	PSDF’s shall be required to
maintain an Industrial Wastewater Permit. Exemptions under Paragraph (c) of
Subdivision 1 of Subsection C of this Section shall not apply to private septage
disposal facilities.	(2)	All waste discharged through a PSDF shall be subject to
discharge prohibitions under Subdivision 1 of Subsection B of Section 64.30 and
specific pollutant limitations under Subdivision 2 of Subsection B of Section
64.30.	(3)	In cases where hauled septage is discharged at a facility in addition
to any discharge from any other industrial operations performed at that site, a
separate industrial wastewater permit shall be required specifically for the
discharge of hauled septage in addition to any other required industrial
wastewater permit(s).	(4)	(Amended by Ord. No. 174,047, Eff. 8/5/01.) 
Additional regulations regarding the operation of PSDFs are specified in the
Board’s Rules and Regulations.  All PSDFs shall be required to comply with
these Rules and Regulations.	(l)	Food Service Establishment (FSE)
Requirements.  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,614, Eff. 7/19/06.)  All FSEs must
implement and demonstrate compliance with Best Management Practices (BMP)
requirements as specified in the Board s Rules and Regulations.	FSEs that are
required to maintain an Industrial Wastewater Permit are also required to
install, operate, and maintain an approved type and adequately sized, remotely
located and readily accessible, grease interceptor, unless a conditional waiver
is granted by the Director.	All FSEs to be newly constructed are subject to
grease interceptor requirements and shall not qualify for a conditional waiver
unless exempt as specified in Section C.1.(c)(1).  Existing FSEs with planned
modifications having a building permit valuation of $100,000 or more are also
subject to grease interceptor requirements and shall not qualify for a
conditional waiver unless exempt as specified in Section C.1.(c)(1).	Additional
regulations regarding FSEs are specified in the Board’s Rules and Regulations.
All food service establishments are required to comply with these Rules and
Regulations.	(1)	Grease Interceptor Specifications.  All grease interceptors
must meet the specifications as set forth in Sections 94.1014.0 through
94.1017.3 of the City of Los Angeles Plumbing Code.	(2)	Conditional Waiver from
Grease Interceptor Installation Requirements.  Under the sole discretion of the
Director, an FSE determined to have no immediate adverse impact on the POTW may
be granted a conditional waiver from grease interceptor installation
requirements. The Director may, at any time, revoke this conditional waiver and
require the FSE to install a grease interceptor.	(3)	Variance to Allow
Alternative Grease Removal Devices.  If an FSE can demonstrate that
installation of a grease interceptor is not feasible due to space constraints or
other considerations, the Director may issue a variance from grease interceptor
requirements and authorize the installation of alternative grease removal
devices.  Alternative grease removal devices include, but are not limited to,
devices that are used to trap, separate and hold grease from wastewater and
prevent it from being discharged into the POTW.  All alternative grease removal
devices must be approved by the Director, on a case-by-case basis.  The FSE
must also demonstrate that BMPs have been implemented.	2.	Reporting
Requirements.	(a)	Federal Reporting Requirements and Additional Reporting
Requirements.  Notwithstanding the reporting requirements set forth in 40 CFR
Part 403, including, but not limited to, the requirements as set forth in 40 CFR
§403.12, the Director may impose additional reporting requirements by permit or
otherwise.	(b)	Reporting by Dischargers Subject to NCPS.  Unless required more
frequently or otherwise specified by the Director, dischargers which are subject
to NCPS shall submit, to the Director, semi-annually, a Periodic Compliance
Report which shall contain, at a minimum, the information required by 40 CFR
§403.12(e).  The Director may require a discharger to submit such reports on a
more frequent basis and may base such decision upon the amount of discharge or
other site-specific concerns the Director may have pertaining to the
discharge.  In addition, dischargers that are subject to NCPS shall submit
Baseline Monitoring Reports (BMRs) and Reports on Compliance (RC) in accordance
with the General Pretreatment Regulations for Existing and New Sources of
Pollution (Title 40, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 403.12).	(c)	Reporting by
SIUs not Subject To NCPS.  Unless required more frequently by the Director,
dischargers which are Significant Industrial Users but are not subject to NCPS
shall submit to the Director semi-annually a report indicating the nature,
concentration and flow of pollutants in the effluent which are required to be
reported by the Director.  At a minimum, the report shall contain the
information required by 40 CFR § 403.12(h).	(d)	Production Data.  The Director
may require any discharger to submit production data.  At a minimum,
dischargers subject to equivalent mass or concentration limits or subject to
production-based NCPS shall report production data as follows:	(1)	Dischargers
subject to NCPS in which equivalent mass or concentration limits are established
by the Director in accordance with 40 CFR §403.6(c) shall report a reasonable
measure of long term production rate (based upon the criteria used for
developing the discharger’s effluent limitations) in its Report on Compliance
and its Periodic Compliance Reports, as applicable.  In addition, such
dischargers shall notify the Director in accordance with Paragraph (e) of this
Subdivision after the discharger has a reasonable basis to know that the
production level will significantly change within the next calendar
month.	(2)	All other dischargers subject to NCPS expressed in terms of allowable
pollutant discharge per unit of production (or other measure of production)
shall include information on the actual production during the sampling period in
its Report on Compliance and its Periodic Compliance Reports, as
applicable.	(e)	Notification of Changed Discharge.	(1)	All industrial
dischargers shall provide written notification to the Director before any
planned change, including physical alterations or additions to the permitted
facility, production increases and anticipated process changes which will result
in a substantial change in the volume or character of pollutants to be
discharged, including notification of changes in the listed or characteristic
hazardous wastes for which the discharger has submitted initial notification
under 40 CFR §403.12(p).  Notice shall be provided at least ninety (90) days
before the change, except if such notice is not feasible, the discharger shall
provide the Director notice as soon as the information becomes available.	(2)	No
wastewater discharge shall be commenced, without notification to and approval by
the Director, in which there has been a substantial change in the volume or
characteristic which causes it to be different from that expressly allowed under
the permit issued.  Upon such notification, the Director, in his/her
discretion, may require that a new application be filed and a new permit
obtained before any wastewater discharge involving the changed characteristic
takes place.	(f)	Signatory/Certification for Baseline Monitoring Reports,
Reports on Compliance, and Periodic Compliance Reports.  Baseline Monitoring
Reports, Reports on Compliance and Periodic Compliance Reports submitted by
dischargers subject to NCPS shall be signed by an authorized representative of
the discharger and shall contain the following certification:	I certify under
penalty of law that this document and all attachments were prepared under my
direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed to assure that
qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information submitted. 
Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system, or those
persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the information
submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true, accurate, and
complete.  I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting false
information, including the possibility of fine and imprisonment for knowing
violations.	(g)	Signatory/Certification for Other Reports.  The Director, at
his/her discretion, may require other reports or information submitted by
dischargers subject to NCPS, or any other discharger, to meet
signatory/certification requirements as the Director deems
appropriate.	(h)	Adoption of New City Specific Pollutant Limitations.  Within
180 days after promulgation of a new City Specific Pollutant Limitation and
notification thereof by the Board to specific dischargers affected thereby, any
discharger subject to such limitations shall submit to the Director a report
containing:	(1)	The name and address of the discharger;	(2)	The address or
location of the premises where the discharge does or will take place;	(3)	The
nature, average production rate, and Standard Industrial Classification of the
operations carried out by the discharger;	(4)	The average and maximum flow of
the discharge in gallons per day;	(5)	The nature and concentration of pollutants
in the discharge from each regulated process and identification of applicable
limitations. The concentration shall be reported as a maximum or average as
provided in applicable limitations. If equivalent concentration limits have been
calculated in accordance with the limitation, this adjusted concentration limit
shall also be submitted;	(6)	A statement, reviewed by an authorized
representative and certified under penalty of perjury by a person with primary
responsibility for the operation which contributes to the discharge, indicating
whether the limitations are being met, and, if not, what operation and
maintenance improvements or additional pretreatment is required for
compliance;	(7)	The shortest schedule under which any additional pretreatment or
operation and maintenance improvements required as a result of the new
limitations or requirements imposed pursuant to Paragraph (a) of Subdivision 1
of Subsection C of this section will be completed.	(i)	The completion date in
such a schedule shall not be later than the compliance date established for the
applicable limitation.	(ii)	The schedule shall provide for reporting increments
of progress in the form of dates for the commencement and completion of major
events leading to the construction and operation of any additional pretreatment
necessary (e.g., hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans,
executing contracts for major components, commencing construction, completing
construction).	(iii)	The discharger shall also submit a written progress report
to the Director, not later than 14 days following each increment of progress
date in the schedule and the final date for compliance. That report shall state
whether the discharger is in compliance with the scheduled increment of
progress. If compliance was not achieved, the report shall state the date by
which the discharger expects to comply with the scheduled increment of progress,
the reason for the failure to comply, and the steps being taken by the
discharger to maintain the established compliance schedule.	(iv)	The time limit
specified in this paragraph for operation or maintenance improvements or
additional pretreatment may be extended by the Board.	3.	Monitoring
Facilities.  The Director may require to be provided, operated and maintained
at the discharger’s expense, separate and secured monitoring facilities to
allow inspection, sampling, and flow measurement of the discharge. The
monitoring facilities ordinarily shall be situated on the discharger’s
premises and in said event the Director shall be granted total and unrestricted
access thereto and use thereof by the discharger as a condition of that
discharger’s permit; however, at its discretion the Board may allow monitoring
facilities to be constructed off-premises.	4.	Monitoring and
Sampling.	(a)	Pre-Notification.  Any discharger may be required by the
Director, by permit or otherwise, to engage in periodic monitoring and sampling
of its discharge.  Where a discharger is required to monitor or sample, the
discharger shall notify the Director by telephone at least 48 hours in advance
of any monitoring or sampling to be performed.  Notification shall include the
date, time and location of proposed monitoring and sampling.  Monitoring and
sampling shall be carried out during a period of normal operations.  Prior to
the commencement of any sampling or monitoring, the Director may request that
the discharger furnish to the Director a split sample and all supporting data
(i.e., methodology, flow measuring data, strip chart recordings, and other
pertinent information).  The Director reserves the right to refuse any data
developed from the monitoring or sampling activity if the discharger fails to
comply with the pre-notification procedure.	(b)	Notification of Discharge
Violations and Resampling.  If sampling performed by a discharger indicates a
violation, the discharger shall notify the Director within 24 hours of becoming
aware of the violation.  The discharger shall also repeat the sampling and
analysis and submit the results of the repeat analysis to the Director within 30
days after becoming aware of the violation, except the discharger is not
required to resample if:	(1)	The Director performs sampling at the
discharger’s facility at a frequency of at least once per month, or	(2)	The
Director performs sampling at the discharger’s facility between the time when
the discharger performs its initial sampling and the time the discharger
receives the results of this sampling.	(c)	Representative Samples.  Samples
shall represent the normal wastewater flow to the POTW over a 24-hour period. 
Composite samples shall be collected according to time or flow as specified by
the Director, with at least one sample collected hourly.  The Director may
require grab samples or continuous monitoring as deemed appropriate (e.g. pH and
flow).  Samples may be collected either manually or by automatic integrated
sampling equipment approved by the Director.	(d)	Sample Analysis.  The
handling, storage, and analysis of all samples taken for the determination of
the characteristics of wastewater discharged shall be performed by laboratories
certified by the State of California and shall be in accordance with the
procedures established by the EPA pursuant to Section 304(a) of the Act and
contained in 40 CFR, Part 136, as amended.  In the absence of a State
certification process, the Director may approve of a laboratory to perform any
necessary sampling and analysis.	5.	Inspection and Sampling.	(a)	Inspections to
Enforce Local, State, and Federal Laws.  Whenever it is necessary to make an
inspection to enforce any of the provisions of or perform any duty imposed by
this section or other applicable law, or whenever the Director has reasonable
cause to believe that there exists upon any premises any violation of the
provisions of this section or other applicable law, or any condition which makes
such premises hazardous, unsafe, or dangerous, the Director is hereby authorized
to enter such property at any reasonable time and to inspect the same and
perform any duty imposed upon the Director by this section or other applicable
law provided that:	(1)	If the property is occupied, the Director shall first
present proper credentials to the occupant and request entry explaining the
reasons therefore and;	(2)	If the property is unoccupied the Director shall
first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons having
charge or control of the property and request entry, explaining the reasons
therefore.  If such entry is refused or cannot be obtained because the owner or
other person having charge or control of the property cannot be found after due
diligence, the Director shall have recourse to every remedy provided by law to
secure lawful entry and inspect the property.	(b)	Inspections to Safeguard the
Public Health or Safety.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Director has
reasonable cause to believe that wastewater discharge conditions on or emanating
from the premises are so hazardous, unsafe or dangerous as to require immediate
inspection to safeguard the public health or safety, the Director shall have the
right to immediately enter and inspect the property, and may use any reasonable
means required to effect such entry and make such inspection, whether the
property is occupied or unoccupied and whether or not formal permission to
inspect has been obtained. If the property is occupied, the Director shall first
present proper credentials to the occupant and demand entry, explaining the
reasons therefor and the purpose of the inspection.	(c)	Penalty for Refusal to
Permit Director to Make Inspections.  No person shall fail or refuse, after
proper demand has been made upon that person as provided in Paragraph (b) of
this Subdivision 5, to promptly permit the Director to make any inspection
provided for by said Paragraph (b). Any person violating this subdivision shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor.	(d)	Consent and Agreement to Enter Premises.  The
applicant, by accepting any permit issued pursuant to this section, does thereby
consent and agree to the entry upon the premises, described in the permit, by
Department personnel for the following purposes as required by this section or
other applicable laws. The City shall be afforded access at all reasonable
times:	(1)	for the purposes of inspection, sampling, flow measurement,
examination of records in the performance of other authorized duties;	(2)	to set
up on the discharger’s property such devices as are necessary to conduct
sampling inspections, compliance-monitoring, flow measuring or metering
operations;	(3)	to inspect and copy any records, reports, test results or other
information required to carry out the provisions of this section; and	(4)	to
photograph any waste, waste container, vehicle, waste treatment process,
discharge location, or violation discovered during an inspection.	(e)	Entry of
Premises with Security Measures.  Where a discharger has instituted security
measures requiring proper identification and clearance before entry onto the
premises, the discharger shall make all necessary arrangements with its security
guards in order that, upon presentation of such identification, City personnel
shall be permitted to enter the premises without delay for the purpose of
performing their authorized duties.	6.	Public Access to Information.  Discharge
and effluent data provided to the City by the discharger shall be available to
the public without restriction. Other information may be subject to a claim of
confidentiality by the discharger. All information which is submitted to the
City by the discharger shall be available to the public, at least to the extent
provided by 40 CFR 2.302. With the exception of governmental agencies, any
person requesting this information from the City shall be required, prior to the
receipt of the requested information, to pay the reasonable cost of said data
gathering, reproduction and transmission incurred by the
City.	7.	Confidentiality.  All information, except for discharge and effluent
data, submitted to the City pursuant to this section may be claimed by the
discharger to be confidential. Any such claim must be asserted at the time of
submission of the information or data to the City. The claim may be asserted by
stamping the words “Confidential Business Information” on each page
containing such information or by other means, however, if no claim is asserted
at the time of submission, the City may make the information available to the
public without further notice. If such a claim is asserted, the information will
be treated in accordance with the procedures set forth in 40 CFR Part 2 (Public
Information).	8.	Falsifying Information.  No person shall knowingly make any
false statement, representation or certification in any application, record,
report, plan or other document filed with the Director or required to be
maintained pursuant to this section, or tamper with or knowingly render
inaccurate any monitoring device required under this section.	9.	Rules and
Regulations.  The Board shall adopt rules and regulations consistent with this
section to effectuate its purpose and intent.	D.	Fees and Charges.	1.	Purpose
and Disposition.  It is the purpose of this subsection to provide for the
recovery of City costs associated with the discharge of wastewater to the
POTW.  With the exception of Wastewater Sampling and Analysis Fees, all fees
and money collected by the City pursuant to the provisions of this section shall
be deposited into the Sewer Construction and Maintenance Fund established by
Section 64.19.2 of this Code. Monies required hereunder to be deposited into
that Fund shall be expended for the purposes set forth in said section and to
provide for any appropriate refunds relative to such fees.	2.	Application
Fees.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,076, Eff. 4/6/12.)  The Board shall require
payment of an initial fee of $370 for each application for an Industrial
Wastewater Permit.  No permit shall be deemed valid until the initial fee has
been paid.  The application fee shall be annually adjusted as shown in the
table below:
  
    
      
        Effective Date
      
      
        Permit Application Fees
      
    
    
      
        July 1, 2012
      
      
        $385
      
    
    
      
        July 1, 2013
      
      
        $400
      
    
    
      
        July 1, 2014
      
      
        $424
      
    
    
      
        July 1, 2015
      
      
        $450
      
    
    
      
        July 1, 2016
      
      
        $479
      
    
    
      
        July 1, 2017
      
      
        $510
      
    
    
      
        July 1, 20182
      
      
        $544
      
    
    
      
        July 1, 2019
      
      
        $579
      
    
    
      
        July 1, 2020
      
      
        $616
      
    
  	3.	Inspection and Control Fees.	(a)	Purpose of Inspection and Control Fees. 
All permitted facilities must pay an annual Inspection and Control (I &#038; C)
Fee as a function of their assigned Inspection Classification Number. Inspection
and Control Fees are part of the City’s approved wastewater revenue program
and pay for the basic level of services which include the following:	- 
Permitting,
	-  Inspection,
	-  Sampling,
	-  Providing laboratory analytical services,
	-  Monitoring facilities’ self monitoring program,
	-  Inventory control and development,
	-  Systems development and data management,
	-  Reporting to local, State and Federal authorities.	(b)	Inspection and
Control Fee Schedule.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,076, Eff. 4/6/12.)  The
Inspection and Control (I&#038;C) Fee shall be paid quarterly in arrears by each
permittee, except permittees in the Class I SubClass group as specified in
Subsection D.3.(c), in possession of a valid Industrial Wastewater Permit in
accordance with the following schedule:
  
    
      
        I&#038;C Class
      
      
        Annual Fee
      
      
        Quarterly Fee
      
    
    
      
        Class 1
      
      
        $254.00
      
      
        $63.50
      
    
    
      
        Class 2
      
      
        $508.00
      
      
        $127.00
      
    
    
      
        Class 3
      
      
        $761.00
      
      
        $190.25
      
    
    
      
        Class 4
      
      
        $1,015.00
      
      
        $253.75
      
    
    
      
        Class 5
      
      
        $1,269.00
      
      
        $317.25
      
    
    
      
        Class 12
      
      
        $3,045.00
      
      
        $761.25
      
    
    
      
        Class 1D
      
      
        $51.00
      
      
        N/A
      
    
  
	I&#038;C Fees shall be annually adjusted as shown in the table below:
  
    
      
        I&#038;C 
Class
      
      
        July 1, 2012
      
      
        July 1, 2013
      
      
        July 1, 2014
      
      
        July 1, 2015
      
      
        July 1, 2016
      
      
        July 1, 2017
      
      
        July 1, 2018
      
      
        July 1, 2019
      
      
        July 1, 2020
      
    
    
      
        Class 1
      
      
        $264
      
      
        $274
      
      
        $291
      
      
        $308
      
      
        $328
      
      
        $350
      
      
        $373
      
      
        $397
      
      
        $423
      
    
    
      
        Class 2
      
      
        $528
      
      
        $549
      
      
        $582
      
      
        $617
      
      
        $657
      
      
        $700
      
      
        $745
      
      
        $793
      
      
        $845
      
    
    
      
        Class 3
      
      
        $792
      
      
        $823
      
      
        $873
      
      
        $925
      
      
        $985
      
      
        $1,049
      
      
        $1,118
      
      
        $1,190
      
      
        $1,268
      
    
    
      
        Class 4
      
      
        $1,056
      
      
        $1,098
      
      
        $1,164
      
      
        $1,234
      
      
        $1,314
      
      
        $1,399
      
      
        $1,490
      
      
        $1,587
      
      
        $1,690
      
    
    
      
        Class 5
      
      
        $1,320
      
      
        $1,372
      
      
        $1,455
      
      
        $1,542
      
      
        1,642
      
      
        $1,749
      
      
        $1,863
      
      
        $1,984
      
      
        $2,113
      
    
    
      
        Class 12
      
      
        $3,167
      
      
        $3,294
      
      
        $3,491
      
      
        $3,701
      
      
        $3,941
      
      
        $4,197
      
      
        $4,470
      
      
        $4,761
      
      
        $5,070
      
    
    
      
        Class 1D
      
      
        $53
      
      
        $55
      
      
        $58
      
      
        $62
      
      
        $66
      
      
        $70
      
      
        $75
      
      
        $80
      
      
        $85
      
    
  
	(c)	Class I SubClasses.  A Subclass of Class I described above may be
established by the Board to apply to certain groups of permittees under Class I
that qualify for reduced inspection and control services.  The Board may group
permittees for this purpose based on the amount and type of discharges and based
on the viability of implementing  Best Management Practices as an effective
control mechanism that merits reduced inspection and control services. 
Consequently, the annual fee will be a portion of the Class I annual fee and in
the amount proportional to the cost of inspection and control services provided
for that group of permittees and as specified in Table I of the Board’s Rules
and Regulations.	(d)	I &#038; C Fee Payment Schedule.  Each permittee, except
the Class I Subclass group, shall make quarterly payments in arrears on the
first of April, July, October or January, following the first permit anniversary
date.	(e)	Class I Subclass Fee Payment Schedule.  Permittees under the Class I
SubClass group shall commence making annual payments on the first of April,
July, October or January, following the first quarterly period in which their
permit becomes effective.	4.	Quality Surcharge Fee.	(a)	Quality Surcharge Fee
Requirement.  The Sewer Service Charge (SSC), as established under Sections
64.41 of the Code, recovers the cost of treatment of domestic strength wastes
discharged to the POTW for treatment.  The SSC is paid by all of the users of
the POTW.  However, industrial wastewater discharged by Industrial Users (IUs)
can vary significantly in strength from that of domestic sewage.  Industrial
wastewater strength can be higher or lower than that of the domestic sewage.  A
permittee whose discharge is determined to contain BOD or SS, as defined in
Subsection A. of Section 64.00 of this Code, with concentrations in excess of
the designated BOD and SS values in the Board Rules and Regulations shall pay a
quality surcharge fee.	(b)	Quality Surcharge Fee Determination.  A fee based on
the quality/strength of the Wastewater discharged into the POTW shall be paid
quarterly in arrears by all Industrial User or permittees in possession of a
valid Industrial Wastewater Permit where the Wastewater of said permittees is
found to be subject to the City’s Quality Surcharge Fee and which is treated
in a City treatment plant. The permittee may choose to be billed for the
City’s Quality Surcharge Fee based on either the provisions of Subsections
64.30 D.4.(b)(1) or 64.30 D.4.(b)(2) below.	(1)	(Amended by Ord. No. 182,076,
Eff. 4/6/12.)  Permittees whose discharge is determined to contain BOD or SS,
as defined in Subsection A. of Section 64.00 of this Code, with concentrations
in excess of the designated BOD and SS values in the Board Rules and Regulations
Governing Disposal of Industrial Wastewater Into the Publicly Owned Treatment
Works of the City of Los Angeles shall pay a Quality Surcharge Fee (QSF)
according to the following formula and provisions.	The Quality Surcharge Fee,
for these permittees, shall be determined pursuant to the following formula:	C =
V [a(SS-DSS) + b(BOD-DBOD)]k	where:	“C” is the Quality Surcharge
Fee.	“V” is the average daily volume of wastewater discharged in gallons and
shall be deemed: (1) the volume of water supplied to the premises, adjusted as
determined by the Board to account for water not discharged into the POTW; (2)
the metered volume of wastewater discharged into the POTW, in accordance with a
measuring device approved by the Board; or (3) a figure determined by the Board,
based upon any other equitable method.	“SS” is the suspended solids as
defined in Subdivision 75. of Subsection A. of Section 64.00 of this Code,
expressed in milligrams per liter.	“BOD” is the biochemical oxygen demand of
the wastewater as defined in Subdivision 6. of Subsection A. of Section 64.00 of
this Code, expressed in milligrams per liter.	“DSS” is the suspended solids
concentration designated by the Board in the Board Rules and
Regulations.	“DBOD” is the biochemical oxygen demand concentration
designated by the Board in the Board Rules and Regulations.	“a”, is the
verifiable cost assessed for each pound of suspended solids, $0.365.	“b”, is
the verifiable cost assessed for each pound of biochemical oxygen demand,
$0.363.	“k”, is (365 x 8.34)/1,000,000, a dimensional constant to convert C
to dollars.	The values for “a” and “b” shall be annually adjusted as
shown in the table below:
  
    
      
        
Effective Date
      
      
        New BOD Rate ($/pounds of BOD)
      
      
        New SS Rate ($/pounds of SS)
      
    
    
      
        July 1, 2012
      
      
        0.377
      
      
        0.380
      
    
    
      
        July 1, 2013
      
      
        0.393
      
      
        0.395
      
    
    
      
        July 1, 2014
      
      
        0.416
      
      
        0.419
      
    
    
      
        July 1, 2015
      
      
        0.441
      
      
        0.444
      
    
    
      
        July 1, 2016
      
      
        0.470
      
      
        0.472
      
    
    
      
        July 1, 2017
      
      
        0.500
      
      
        0.503
      
    
    
      
        July 1, 2018
      
      
        0.533
      
      
        0.536
      
    
    
      
        July 1, 2019
      
      
        0.567
      
      
        0.571
      
    
    
      
        July 1, 2020
      
      
        0.604
      
      
        0.608
      
    
  
	If the term containing SS or BOD is negative, a value of zero shall be used for
the term.	(i)	In determining the amount of Quality Surcharge Fee to be paid by
various industrial users, the Board may establish industry-wide averages for SS
and BOD values.  The Board may group permittees into appropriate discharge
volume ranges each of which shall be represented by an average discharge
volume.  Where sampling and volume measurements of any permittee are not
practical for physical, economic or other reasons, these averages may be used in
establishing such permittee’s Quality Surcharge Fee.	(ii)	Any permittee whose
fee has been determined in the above manner who is not satisfied that the
averages are applicable to its discharge, may submit appropriate engineering
data to the Board for its consideration.  If the Board finds that such
permittee’s discharge differs significantly from the averages established, it
may determine the fee on a more appropriate basis.	(2)	Permittees whose
discharge is determined to contain BOD or SS, as defined in Subsection A. of
Section 64.00 of this Code, with concentrations less than the designated BOD and
SS  values in the Board Rules and Regulations may petition the Board to pay a
Low-Strength SSC Rate as defined in Section 64.41.01 (o), of the Code.  Upon
qualification, such permittee may be allowed to pay a Low-Strength SSC Rate
where the Low-Strength SSC Rate excludes the cost component associated with the
domestic sewage strength included in the SSC rate.  However, should such a
permittee petition and be allowed to pay a Low-Strength SSC Rate, such permittee
shall simultaneously become subject to the Zero-Based Quality Surcharge Fee
(QSF) as defined in Subsection 64.30 D.4.(c) below.  This fee is to recover the
treatment cost associated with removal of BOD and SS, as defined below, in the
permittee’s discharge.  This fee is also representative of and a replacement
for the strength cost component of the Sewer Service Charge (SSC) not included
in the Low-Strength SSC Rate as defined in Section 64.41.01 (o) of the Code.	The
Quality Surcharge Fee, for these permittees, shall be determined pursuant to the
following formula:	C  =  V [a(SS) + b(BOD)]k	where:	C, V, a, b, k, BOD and SS
are defined under Section 64.30, Subsection D.4.(b) above.	(c)	Zero-Based
Quality Surcharge Fee Qualifications and Requirements.  Any discharger, in
possession of a valid Industrial Wastewater Permit, that petitions to pay a
Low-Strength SSC Rate and a Zero-Based QSF, shall meet the following
qualifications and requirements:	(1)	The discharger, if not in possession of a
valid Industrial Wastewater Permit, must apply for and obtain an industrial
wastewater discharge permit as defined under Subsection 64.30 C.1. of the
Code.	(2)	The permittee must petition, in writing, to the Board to be placed on
the Zero-Based Quality Surcharge Fee;	(3)	The permittee must submit analytical
data of its discharge, at the time of and with its petition, to demonstrate that
the strength of its discharge does qualify for the Low-Strength SSC
Rate;	(4)	The permittee shall become subject to self monitoring of its
discharge, per Industrial Waste Management Division policies and also as defined
and established in Section 9 of the Board’s Rules and Regulations and,	(5)	The
permittee shall install a sampling facility, for the purposes of
self-monitoring, in accordance to the requirements set forth by the
Director.	(d)	Determination of Surcharge Fees for Ground Solid Wastes.  Where
ground solid wastes such as garbage, market refuse, food plant wastes and
hospital wastes are discharged to the POTW, their weights shall be recorded
prior to disposal or may be estimated by the Board, and a dry weight loading
calculated for determination of surcharges. Food processors which grind food
plant wastes for discharge to the POTW and hospitals which grind infectious
wastes for discharge to the POTW may be required to report quarterly the total
weight of material ground for surcharge determination.	5.	Private Septage
Disposal Facility (PSDF) Fees.  Subject to the provisions of this Subsection,
all PSDFs shall pay, quarterly in arrears, the following fees and discharge user
rates:	(a)	PSDF Inspection and Control Fee.  An annual Inspection and Control
(I &#038; C) Fee, in the amount corresponding to the I and Classification Number
as set forth in Table 1 of the Board’s Rules and Regulations and;	(b)	PSDF
Septage Treatment Cost Recovery User Fee.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,076, Eff.
4/6/12.)  A per gallon Septage Treatment Cost Recovery User fee at the rate of
$0.0528 per gallon as applied to the full-tank capacity of each vehicle
discharging at the PSDF.  The rate shall be annually adjusted as shown in the
table below:
  
    
      
        Effective Date
      
      
        User Fees ($/gallon)
      
    
    
      
        July 1, 2012
      
      
        0.0542
      
    
    
      
        July 1, 2013
      
      
        0.0557
      
    
    
      
        July 1, 2014
      
      
        0.0572
      
    
    
      
        July 1, 2015
      
      
        0.0587
      
    
    
      
        July 1, 2016
      
      
        0.0603
      
    
    
      
        July 1, 2017
      
      
        0.0612
      
    
    
      
        July 1, 20182
      
      
        0.0621
      
    
    
      
        July 1, 2019
      
      
        0.0631
      
    
    
      
        July 1, 2020
      
      
        0.0640
      
    
  	6.	Wastewater Sampling and Analysis Fee.  (Renumbered by Ord. No. 182,076,
Eff. 4/6/12.)  The Board may charge a fee of $100 for each analysis performed
by or on behalf of the Bureau of Sanitation or the Department of General
Services, on wastewater samples taken from the discharger. Monies collected
pursuant to this Subdivision 5 shall be deposited into the General Fund to the
account of the Department of General Services.	7.	Significant Industrial User
Fee.  (Renumbered and Amended by Ord. No. 182,076, Eff. 4/6/12.)  In addition
to any fees and charges required by this Subsection, Significant Industrial
Users (SIUs), as defined in Section 64.00, shall be charged additional fees in
accordance with the following schedule for each applicable Industrial Wastewater
Permit:
  
    
      
        SIU Group
      
      
        Group Identification
      
      
        Amount of Fee
      
    
    
      
        I
      
      
        Categorical Industrial Users with an average discharge equal to or
greater than 10,000 gallons per day
      
      
        $4,359
      
    
    
      
        II
      
      
        Categorical Industrial Users other than Electroplaters with an average
discharge less than 10,000 gallons per day
      
      
        $4,216
      
    
    
      
        III
      
      
        Category 413 Industrial Users (Electroplaters) with an  average
discharge less than 10,000 gallons per day
      
      
        $2,308
      
    
    
      
        IV
      
      
        Non-Categorical Industrial Users with an average discharge of equal to
or greater than 250,000 gallons per day
      
      
        $3,605
      
    
    
      
        V
      
      
        Non-Categorical Industrial Users with an average discharge of equal to
or greater than 40,000 gallons but less than 250,000 gallons per day
      
      
        $2,617
      
    
    
      
        VI
      
      
        Non-Categorical Industrial Users with an average discharge of equal to
or greater than 25,000 gallons but less than 40,000 gallons per day, OR; any
industrial user that is designated by the Director to have a reasonable
potential to adversely affect the POTW’s operation or for violating any
pretreatment standards or requirement.
      
      
        $2,453
      
    
  
	SIU Fees shall be annually adjusted as shown in the table below:
  
    
      
        Annual Fee and Effective Date
      
    
    
      
        SIU
Group
      
      
        July 1, 2012
      
      
        July 1, 2013
      
      
        July 1, 2014
      
      
        July 1, 2015
      
      
        July 1, 2016
      
      
        July 1, 2017
      
      
        July 1, 2018
      
      
        July 1, 2019
      
      
        July 1, 2020
      
    
    
      
        Group I
      
      
        $4,533
      
      
        $4,714
      
      
        $4,997
      
      
        $5,297
      
      
        $5,641
      
      
        $6,008
      
      
        $6,399
      
      
        $6,814
      
      
        $7,257
      
    
    
      
        Group II
      
      
        $4,385
      
      
        $4,560
      
      
        $4,834
      
      
        $5,124
      
      
        $5,457
      
      
        $5,812
      
      
        $6,189
      
      
        $6,592
      
      
        $7,020
      
    
    
      
        Group III
      
      
        $2,400
      
      
        $2,496
      
      
        $2,646
      
      
        $2,805
      
      
        $2,987
      
      
        $3,181
      
      
        $3,388
      
      
        $3,608
      
      
        $3,843
      
    
    
      
        Group IV
      
      
        $3,749
      
      
        $3,899
      
      
        $4,133
      
      
        $4,381
      
      
        $4,665
      
      
        $4,969
      
      
        $5,292
      
      
        $5,636
      
      
        $6,002
      
    
    
      
        Group V
      
      
        $2,721
      
      
        $2,830
      
      
        $3,000
      
      
        $3,180
      
      
        $3,387
      
      
        $3,607
      
      
        $3,841
      
      
        $4,091
      
      
        $4,357
      
    
    
      
        Group VI
      
      
        $2,551
      
      
        $2,654
      
      
        $2,813
      
      
        $2,982
      
      
        $3,175
      
      
        $3,382
      
      
        $3,602
      
      
        $3,836
      
      
        $4,085
      
    
  
	8.	Due Dates.  (Renumbered by Ord. No. 182,076, Eff. 4/6/12.)	(a)	Fee Due
Dates for other than I &#038; C Class I SubClass Fees. Fees subject to the
provisions of this subdivision, Inspection and Control Fees, Quality Surcharge
Fees, Private Septage Disposal Facility Fees, and Significant Industrial User
Fees shall be due in quarterly installments payable on the first day of January,
April, July and October, with each such payment applicable to the immediately
preceding quarter.	(b)	Class I SubClasses Fee Due Dates.	(1)	I &#038; C Fees. 
Class I SubClass permittees shall commence making annual payments on the first
of April, July, October or January, following the first quarterly period in
which their permit becomes effective. The following outlines the billing
schedule for Class I SubClasses permittees:	Permit Effective Period	Bill Due
Date
	Jul-Sept.			October 1
	Oct-Dec.			Jan 1
	Jan-March			April 1
	Apr-Jun.			July 1	(2)	Quality Surcharge Fees.  Class I SubClass permittees
subject to Quality Surcharge Fees shall be subject to the same schedule of
payments set forth in the provisions of Subsections 64.30 D.4.(10)(a)
above.	9.	Cost Recovery For Sewer Maintenance.  (Renumbered by Ord. No.
182,076, Eff. 4/6/12.)  The Board may charge any discharger for the cost of
sewer maintenance resulting from its wastewater discharge.	10.	Delinquency –
Penalty Charges.  (Renumbered by Ord. No. 182,076, Eff. 4/6/12.)
 
	(a)	Delinquency – Penalties.  If the fees are not paid on or before the last
day of the quarter in which they are due, a penalty equal to 2.5% of any
outstanding fees, but not less than $10.00, shall be added to the fees.  The
fees, including penalty, shall become a part of the fees required by this
section and be payable for that quarter.  Any fees remaining unpaid after the
last day of the quarter shall be added and carried over to the amount owing for
the next quarter and become part of the fees owing for that quarter.
 	(b)	Continued Delinquency.  All principal charges, excluding accrued
penalties, carried over from a prior quarter shall be assessed an additional
penalty in the amount of 2.5% if not paid on or before the last day of each
quarter until paid in full.   All charges carried over into the next quarter
shall continue being carried over and added to charges accruing for the
following quarter, if any, without limitation and all outstanding principal
charges shall be subject to continued penalties as provided here for each
quarter in which they remain unpaid. These charges and penalties shall continue
to accrue quarterly until paid regardless of whether the permit is revoked as
provided here.	(c)	Delayed billing.  If the invoices for any fees due, pursuant
to this section, are not mailed before the due date, these fees shall not become
delinquent until 35 days following the invoice mailing date, at which time, the
fees shall become delinquent and the charges and time payment factors as
provided above shall apply.		(d)	Revocation.  If the total invoiced amount is
not paid by the last day of the month of any quarter in which there is an amount
owing from a previous quarter, the permit shall be subject to revocation as
provided in Subsection E below.  Before the Board may grant any new permit, all
outstanding delinquent fees and penalties must be paid.	11.	Liability for Costs
of Correction Arising from Unlawful Discharge.  (Renumbered by Ord. No.
182,076, Eff. 4/6/12.)   Whenever any discharger introduces or causes to be
introduced wastewater in violation of this section and such discharge, either
singly or by interaction with other discharges, results in damage to or is
otherwise detrimental to or adversely affects the POTW, said discharger shall be
liable to the City for reasonable costs necessary to correct that discharge,
detriment or adverse effect, including, but not limited to labor, material,
inspection, transportation, overhead, and incidental; expenses associated with
the corrective action. The discharger shall additionally be liable to the City
for the reasonable costs of investigation by the City arising from the unlawful
discharge.	E.	Enforcement	1.	Suspension of Industrial Wastewater
Permit.	(a)	Permit Suspension Criteria.  The Director may suspend an Industrial
Wastewater Permit when such a suspension is necessary in order to stop a
discharge which presents an imminent hazard to the public health, safety or
welfare, to the local environment, or which either singly or by interaction with
other discharges, is an imminent hazard to the POTW or places the City in
violation of its NPDES permit.	(b)	Discharger Response to Suspension
Notification.  Any discharger notified of a suspension of that discharger’s
Industrial Wastewater Permit shall immediately cease and desist the discharge of
all industrial wastewater into the POTW.  Any discharger notified of a
suspension of that discharger’s Industrial Wastewater Permit issued for a
private sewage disposal system shall immediately cease and desist the discharge
of industrial wastewater into both the private sewage disposal system and the
POTW.	(c)	Failure of Discharger to Comply with a Suspension Order.  In the
event of a failure of a discharger to comply voluntarily with a suspension
order, the Board may take such steps as are reasonably necessary to ensure
compliance. These include, but are not limited to, immediate blockage or
disconnection of the discharger’s connection to the POTW, and a request to the
Department of Water and Power that it discontinue water service of the affected
property until full compliance with the Notice to Comply has been
achieved.	(d)	Notice of an Intended Order of Suspension.  The Director in the
event of violation of this section, may serve the discharger with a notice of an
intended order of suspension, stating the reasons therefor, the opportunity for
a hearing with respect thereto, and the proposed effective date of the intended
order.	(e)	Order of Suspension Board Hearing.  Any discharger suspended or
served with a notice of an intended order of suspension may file with the
Secretary of the Board a request for a Board hearing with respect thereto.
Filing of such request shall not stay a suspension. In the event a suspension of
a permit due to imminent hazard related to continued discharge, the discharger
may request a hearing, and the Board or a hearing examiner designated by the
Board for that purpose, shall conduct a hearing within three days of receipt of
the request. In the event of hearing requests, for other than an imminent hazard
suspension, the Board shall hold a hearing on the suspension within 14 days of
receipt of the request. At the close of the hearing the Board shall make its
determination whether to terminate, or conditionally terminate the suspension
imposed by the Director, or the Board may cause the permit to be revoked. Except
in the case of a hearing within three days being required as above provided,
reasonable notice of the hearing shall be given to the suspended discharger in
the manner provided for in Subdivision 6 of Subsection E of this
section.	(f)	Stay of Order of Suspension.  In the event that the Board fails to
meet within the time set forth above or fails to make a determination within 72
hours after the close of the hearing, the order of suspension shall be stayed
until a Board determination is made with respect to the action of the
Director.	(g)	Reinstatement of Industrial Wastewater Permit.  The Director
shall reinstate the Industrial Wastewater Permit upon proof of compliance which
ends the emergency nature of the hazard created by the discharge that had been
cause for the Director to initiate the suspension, provided that the Director is
satisfied that all discharge requirements of this section, the Board’s Rules
and Regulations, and any Board order will be implemented.	2.	Revocation of
Industrial Wastewater Permit.  The Board may revoke an Industrial Wastewater
Permit upon a finding that the discharger has violated any provision of this
section or the Board’s Rules and Regulations. No revocation shall be ordered
until a notice and hearing on the question has been held by the Board as
provided in Subdivisions 4 and 5 of this Subsection E of Section
64.30.	3.	Additional Emergency Remedial Measures.  The Director shall have full
power and authority to take any necessary precautions including but not limited
to, decontamination, sewer closure, packaging, diking, and transportation of
materials, in order to protect life, protect property, or prevent further damage
resulting from a condition that is likely to result in a discharge which
presents an imminent hazard to the public health, safety or welfare; or which
either singly or by interaction with other discharges, is an imminent hazard to
the POTW; or which places the City in violation of its NPDES permit. In the
pursuit of such an operation, City personnel, any party contracting with the
City, or duly authorized representative of another governmental agency shall
have immediate access to the premises. The Director may prohibit approach to the
scene of such emergency by any person vehicle, vessel or thing, and all persons
not actually employed in the extinguishment of the condition or the preservation
of lives and property in the vicinity thereof.	4.	Board Hearing.	(a)	Appointment
of Hearing Examiner.  With respect to permit revocation or suspension hearings,
the Board may conduct the hearing or may appoint one or more examiners or
designate one or more of its members to serve as hearing examiners and to
conduct a hearing with respect to any appeal or protest filed. At such hearing
the discharger may appear personally or through counsel, cross-examine witnesses
and present evidence in the discharger’s behalf.	(b)	Board Decision.  The
hearing examiner or examiners, if other than the Board, shall submit a written
report and recommendations to the Board together with a brief summary of the
evidence considered and conclusions reached with respect thereto. The Board,
after considering evidence presented at such a hearing, and any report submitted
to it with respect to such a hearing, or after any hearing which it conducts,
shall adopt findings supported by evidence, and may adopt, reject, or modify in
whole or in part, make its decision, and issue its order. If the Board’s order
is to revoke the discharger’s Industrial Wastewater Permit, the order may be
effective forthwith, or at a later specified date. The discharger shall be
notified in writing of the Board’s action.	(c)	Compliance with Order of
Revocation.  Any discharger whose Industrial Wastewater Permit has been revoked
shall immediately cease and desist all discharge of any wastewater covered by
the Permit. The Board may disconnect or permanently block the discharger’s
connection if such action is necessary to ensure compliance with the order of
revocation.	(d)	Conditions for Resumption of Discharge after Permit
Revocation.  After revocation of a discharger’s Industrial Wastewater Permit,
there shall be no further discharge of industrial wastewater by that discharger
into the POTW unless there has been a new application filed, all fees and
charges that would be required upon an initial application and all delinquent
fees, charges, penalties and other sums owed by the discharger and/or the
applicant to the City have been paid to the City, and a new Industrial
Wastewater Permit has been issued. Any costs incurred by the City, including
administrative costs and investigative fees, in revoking the Permit and
disconnecting the connection if necessary, shall also be paid for by the
discharger before issuance of a new Industrial Wastewater Permit.	5.	Notice. 
Notice of the hearing shall be given to the discharger at least ten (10) days
prior to the date of hearing. Unless otherwise provided herein, any notice
required to be given by the Director under this section shall be in writing and
served in person or by registered or certified mail addressed to the
addressee’s last known address with request for return receipt. Where no
address is known, service may be made upon the owner of record of the property
upon which the alleged violation occurred or by posting the notice conspicuously
on the property.	Notice shall be deemed to have been given at the time the
written notice is deposited, postage prepaid, in the United States mail at Los
Angeles, California.	6.	Public List of Significant Noncompliant Industrial
Dischargers.  The Director shall identify a discharger as meeting one or more
of the Significant Noncompliance (SNC) criteria listed in 40 CFR Section
403.8(f)(2)(vii) and shall publish notice in the largest daily newspaper
published in the City of such status. The criteria for SNC shall be as
follows:	(a)	Sixty-six percent (66%) or more of wastewater measurements taken
during a 6 month period exceed the discharge limit for the same pollutant
parameter by any amount;	(b)	Thirty-three percent (33%) or more of the
wastewater measurements taken during a 6 month period for each pollutant equals
or exceeds the product of the daily maximum limit or the average limit
multiplied by the applicable criteria (1.4 for BOD, TSS, oil and grease, and 1.2
for all other pollutants except pH);	(c)	Any other effluent violation that the
Director believes has caused, alone or in combination with other discharges,
interference or pass through (including endangering the health of POTW personnel
or the general public);	(d)	Any discharge of pollutants that has caused imminent
endangerment to the public, human health or welfare or to the environment or has
resulted in the City’s exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent
such a discharge;	(e)	Failure to meet, within ninety (90) days of the scheduled
date, a compliance schedule milestone contained in a permit or Administrative
Order for starting construction, completing construction, or attaining final
compliance;	(f)	Failure to provide, within 30 days after the due date, any
required reports such as 90 day compliance reports, periodic self-monitoring
reports and reports on compliance with compliance schedules;	(g)	Failure to
accurately report noncompliance;	(h)	Any other violation or group of violations
that the Director determines will adversely affect the operation or
implementation of its pretreatment program.	7.	Penalties for
Violations.	(a)	Criminal Penalty.  Except as expressly provided, violation of
this section or any order issued by the Board or the Director as authorized by
this section is a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 per
violation per day or by imprisonment in the County jail for a period of not more
than six (6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.	(b)	Injunctive
Relief.  Whenever a discharger of wastewater is in violation of this section or
otherwise causes or threatens to cause a condition of contamination, pollution
or nuisance, the Board or the Director may cause the City to seek a petition to
the Superior Court for the issuance of a preliminary or permanent injunction,
restraining order, or other order, as may be appropriate in restraining the
continuance of such discharge.	(c)	Civil Liability.  Any person who violates
any provision of this section or any term or condition of any permit issued
pursuant to this section or plan approval which prohibits or limits the
discharge of any waste imposes any pretreatment requirement shall be civilly
liable to the City in the maximum sum provided by law for each day in which such
violation occurs.	F.	Conflict.  Provisions of this section shall prevail over
any other inconsistent or conflicting provisions of this chapter.
