                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ADJUSTMENTS – EXEMPTIONS – APPEALS. (§ 64.41.07)

  ADJUSTMENTS – EXEMPTIONS – APPEALS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 173, 587, Eff. 12/7/00.)	(a)	The Board shall establish
rules and regulations for the filing, review and determination of adjustments
and exemptions and, insofar as consistent with the terms of this section, for
any appeals to the Board from determinations thereon.	(b)	(Amended by Ord. No.
171,531, Eff. 4/5/97, Oper. 7/1/97.)  The Board shall have the power to provide
for adjustments to the volume of sewage determined to be discharged to the sewer
system in the following instances when:	(1)	(Amended by Ord. No. 172,763, Eff.
9/19/99.)  The user’s sewage volume would otherwise be determined by section
64.41.03 (g) (1), and:	(A)	an extraordinary non-occupancy related condition
occurred during the Rainy Season Billing Period substantially affecting the
user’s Winter Water Use; or	(B)	the user has replaced all existing toilets on
the premises with Ultra-Low-Flush Toilets.		(2)	The user’s sewage volume would
otherwise be determined by Section 64.41.03 (g)(2) and the user’s actual
discharge of sewage to the sewage system is determined to be substantially less
than the sewage volume calculated pursuant to 64.41.03 (g)(2).  (Amended by
Ord. No. 182,076, Eff. 4/6/12.)	(3)	The premises is unoccupied throughout a
billing period.	(c)	The Board shall have the power to provide for exemptions as
defined in this article.  (New Subsec. (c) Added by Ord. No. 171,531, Eff.
4/5/97, Oper. 7/1/97.)	(d)	(Subsec. (c) Re-lettered (d) by Ord. No. 171,531,
Eff. 4/5/97, Oper. 7/1/97.)  The Board shall provide Water and Power with
notices of adjustments and exemptions and appeal procedures, and Water and Power
shall cause said notices to be mailed along with the first water bills
subsequent to the effective date of this article which includes sewer service
charges, and will cause copies of said notices to be mailed or otherwise given
in connection with each new application for water service made after the
effective date of this article. The Board shall likewise provide such notices to
the Office of Finance and the Office of Finance shall cause said notices to be
mailed or otherwise distributed to all users or other persons billed by the
Office of Finance whom he has reason to believe has not already received such
notice.	(e)	(Subsec. (d) Re-lettered (e) by Ord. No. 171,531, Eff. 4/5/97, Oper.
7/1/97.)  Where a determination or adjustment or exemption has become final as
provided in this section. future billings shall reflect such adjustment unless
otherwise determined by he Board.	(f)	(Subsec. (e) Re-lettered (f) by Ord. No.
171,531, Eff. 4/5/97, Oper. 7/1/97.)  The Board shall advise the Office of
Finance when there is any adjustment or exemption affecting past or future
charges, and, if so, for what period of time and to what extent, and the Office
of Finance shall take whatever action he deems necessary to comply with such
adjustment or exemption, whether by refund, credit, or otherwise.	(g)	(Subsec.
(f) Re-lettered (g) by Ord. No. 171,531, Eff. 4/5/97, Oper. 7/1/97.)  The Board
shall arrange with Water and Power to calculate and apply, insofar as adequate
data is available, the appropriate adjustment to the Sewer Service Charge of
each residential user annually using water consumption data available in the
Water and Power automated billing system.  Such adjustments shall be effective
only for billings prepared following the time of calculation.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 170,257, Eff. 2/23/95.)	(h)	(Subsec. (g) Re-lettered (h) by Ord. No.
171,531, Eff. 4/5/97, Oper. 7/1/97.)  (Amended by Ord. No. 170,257, Eff.
2/23/95.)  Any user or person billed, may apply in writing for an adjustment to
the office designated by the Board within thirty (30) days from the date the
bill is mailed or delivered with respect to the period for which the user or
person billed seeks adjustment.  However, the application may be made within
one (l) year from the date the bill is mailed or delivered with respect to the
period for which the user or person billed seeks adjustment under the following
two circumstances:	(a)	the premises was unoccupied; or	(b)	the result of the
calculation performed by the Department of Water and Power was inaccurate
because of defective water consumption data.	(i)	(Subsec. (h) Re-lettered (i) by
Ord. No. 171,531, Eff. 4/5/97, Oper. 7/1/97.)  The Board shall provide for
action to be taken and determination to be made upon each application for
adjustment or exemption within thirty (30) days from the date said application
is filed whenever reasonably possible, and shall cause the applicant to be
immediately notified in writing of any determination on the application for
adjustment. Request for production of additional information may be made of the
applicant, and if the applicant fails to produce the requested information
within thirty (30) days from the date of mailing the request therefor,
proceedings may be terminated or such other action as is deemed by the Board to
be appropriate may be taken.	(j)	(Subsec. (i) Re-lettered (j) by Ord. No.
171,531, Eff. 4/5/97, Oper. 7/1/97.)  Any person who has filed an application
for adjustment or exemption and received a determination thereon, and who has
likewise complied with the procedures of this section, may appeal such
determination to the Board pursuant to procedures, rules and regulations adopted
by the Board of such purpose. An appeal must be filed within ten (10) days
following the date of mailing notice of the determination on the request for
adjustment or exemption. The Board shall set a time for hearing the matter, and
shall mail written notice thereof no less than ten (10) days prior to the date
of such hearing to the person who has filed. The notice shall be mailed postage
prepaid to the address designated on said appeal, and also to the address shown
on the original application for adjustment if such is different.	(k)	(Subsec.
(j) Re-lettered (k) by Ord. No. 171,531, Eff. 4/5/97, Oper. 7/1/97.)  A hearing
upon an appeal shall be set whenever reasonably possible no later than thirty
(30) days after the date of filing the appeal. The Board may continue the
hearing from time to time in its discretion, and shall make a written
determination upon the appeal within fifteen (15) days from the conclusion of
the hearing and provide a copy thereof to the person who filed said
appeal.	(l)	Any person may, who has complied with the procedures of this
section, may, within ten (10) days of the mailing date of the Board’s written
determination, referred to in (j) above, appeal such decision to the City
Council by filing a notice of appeal with the City Clerk. This notice of appeal
shall be in writing and set forth specifically wherein the appellant believes
there was an error or abuse of discretion on the part of the Board. The Council
may then set a time for hearing the matter, and shall mail written notice
thereof no less than ten (10) days prior to the date of such hearing to the
person who has so filed. The notice shall be mailed as provided in (i) above. If
the City Council fails to act within thirty (30) days after the day of the
filing or the appeal with the Office of Finance the appeal shall be deemed
denied.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,076, Eff. 4/6/12.)	(m)	An adjustment or
exemption determination shall become final upon the termination of time for
filing an appeal to the City Council as provided for in this section where no
appeal has been filed; provided that in the event an appeal has been timely
filed, the determination, including deemed denial, by the City Council upon such
appeal shall be final and the City Council shall so notify the Board.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 182,076, Eff. 4/6/12.)	The filing of an application for adjustment
or exemption or of an appeal to the Board or City Council from a determination
thereon shall not stay the continued and further billing during the course of
time consumed in said proceedings, but any such continued and further billing
will be adjusted, if appropriate, at the termination of the proceedings pursuant
to and in conformance with the determination therein; provided, however, that
acceptance of any payment by the City subsequent to the application for
adjustment shall not preclude billing and collection different from or in excess
of such payments and in conformance with said final determination.
