                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

CHARGES. (§ 64.41.03)

  CHARGES.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 171,531, Eff. 4/5/97, Oper. 7/1/97.)	(a)	There is hereby
imposed a sewer services charge for the receiving, transportation, pumping
treatment and/or disposal of sewage through the sewer system.  (Amended by Ord.
No 151,211, Eff. 8/7/78.)	(b)	The Sewer Service Charge (SSC) will be a charge to
all users on the volume of sewage discharged to the sewer system from a
premises. The SSC shall be paid by the user or other person billed by either
Water and Power or the Office of Finance, whichever has billed for such
charge.  If the user is someone other than the owner of the premises the owner
and such user shall be jointly and severally obligated to pay the SSC.  The
imposition of the SSC based on the volume of sewage discharged shall not
preclude imposition of a supplemental charge to industrial users based on the
quality of sewage discharged (“Quality Surcharge Fee”), as provided by
Section 64.30 D.4. of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 173, 587, Eff. 12/7/00.)
 	(c)	Any allocation of the Sewer Service Charge rate between the financing of
capital improvements and the payment of the costs of operation and maintenance
(including replacement) of the sewer system, or any other adjustment of the
rate, necessary to comply with the provisions of federal or state law, shall be
made by the Board following adoption of the budget for each fiscal year.	(d)	No
Sewer Service Charge shall be billed to or collected from a premises where no
portion of the water supplied or delivered to the premises, from whatever
source, neither traverses through any portion of the City’s sewer collection
system or is treated at any of the City’s sewage treatment
facilities.	(e)	Sewer Service Charge Computation:  The Sewer Service Charge for
each user shall be computed by multiplying the applicable rate, as provided in
Subsection (f), by the volume of sewage discharged to the sewer system from a
premises, as provided in Subsection (g); the result shall be decreased by a
low-income subsidy, as provided in Subsection (h), or increased by a low-income
subsidy surcharge, as provided in Subsection (i), whichever is
applicable.	(f)	Rate:  The rate applicable to calculating the Sewer Service
Charge shall be determined as follows:	(1)	For users whose premises discharge
sewage to the sewer system, and this sewage is treated in the City’s
facilities, the rate shall be $3.27 per hcf of sewage discharged, except as
provided in Subdivision (2) of this Subsection.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,076,
Eff. 4/6/12.)	(2)	Any Low-Strength Industrial User may petition the Board and
request to pay its Sewer Service Charge at the Low-Strength rate of $2.268 per
hcf, for the flow component of its wastewater discharge in addition to paying a
“Zero-Based” Quality Surcharge Fee for the strength component of its
wastewater discharge per Section 64.30 D.4.(b) and (c) of this Code.  The
petitioner must submit analytical data on its discharge at the time of and with
its petition, demonstrating that the average strengths of its BOD and/or SS
concentrations discharged over a one-year period are less than the designated
BOD and SS values in the Board Rules and Regulations Governing Disposal of
Industrial Wastewater into the Publicly Owned Treatment Works of the City of Los
Angeles.  Fees paid in accordance with this paragraph shall be effective for
services provided up to one year prior to date of petition to pay such fees. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 182,076, Eff. 4/6/12.)	(3)	A Supplemental Charge shall be
added to the charge imposed pursuant to the provisions of Subdivision (1) of
this Subsection at  the rate of $0.15 per hcf of sewage discharged, and a
Supplemental Charge shall be added to the charges imposed pursuant to
Subdivision (2) of this Subsection at the Low-Strength rate of $0.102 per hcf. 
The rates identified in this Subdivision shall be annually adjusted as shown in
the table below:  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,076, Eff. 4/6/12.)
  
    
      
        
Effective Date
      
      
        
Supplemental Sewer Service Charge ($/hcf)
      
      
        Supplemental Low-Strength Sewer Service Charge ($/hcf)
      
    
    
      
        July 1, 2012
      
      
        0.30
      
      
        0.209
      
    
    
      
        July 1, 2013
      
      
        0.46
      
      
        0.320
      
    
    
      
        July 1, 2014
      
      
        0.70
      
      
        0.488
      
    
    
      
        July 1, 2015
      
      
        0.96
      
      
        0.668
      
    
    
      
        July 1, 2016
      
      
        1.24
      
      
        0.858
      
    
    
      
        July 1, 2017
      
      
        1.53
      
      
        1.062
      
    
    
      
        July 1, 2018
      
      
        1.84
      
      
        1.278
      
    
    
      
        July 1, 2019
      
      
        2.17
      
      
        1.509
      
    
    
      
        July 1, 2020
      
      
        2.53
      
      
        1.754
      
    
  
	(4)	The Supplemental Charge imposed pursuant to the provisions of Subdivision
(3) of this Subsection shall be subject to all of the provisions of this
Article, except that it shall not be subject to the provisions of Subsection (h)
or Subsection (i) of this Section.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,076, Eff.
4/6/12.)	(5)	If a premises discharges sewage to the sewage collection system but
the sewage is not treated at the City’s sewage treatment facilities, the
applicable rate shown at Subdivisions (1), (2) and (3) of this Subsection shall
be 15% of what it would otherwise be if the sewage was treated at the City’s
sewage treatment facilities.  (Added by Ord. No. 182,076, Eff.
4/6/12.)	(g)	Sewage Volume:  The volume of sewage discharged from a premises,
used for the purposes of calculating the Sewer Service Charge, shall be
determined as follows, unless the Board has authorized an adjustment pursuant to
Subsection (b) of Section 64.41.07:	(1)	For residential users, the volume for
each day billed to a user on a premises within a fiscal year shall be the
greater of the following:	(A)	the Winter Water Use for that user on that
premises during the most recently determined Rainy Season Review Period
multiplied by the corresponding Dry Winter Compensation Factor; or	(B)	the
minimum reasonable volume of sewage discharged by a household consisting of one
resident as determined by the Board.	EXCEPTION:  If the volume of water
delivered to a premises during a billing period is zero, the volume of sewage
discharged shall be zero. The Board shall establish rules to estimate the volume
of sewage discharged when the record of data for a user on a premises during the
most recently determined rainy season is incomplete or nonexistent.(Amended by
Ord. No. 172,763, Eff. 9/19/99.)  	(2)	For Commercial, Governmental, Multiple
Dwelling, and Industrial users, the volume shall be the volume of water supplied
to the premises during the billing period multiplied by the Default Percentage
Discharge.  The Board shall annually adjust the Default Percentage Discharge
based, in whole or in part, on Department of Water and Power Water conservation
policies, to reflect the amount of flow discharged to the sewer system by
commercial, governmental, multiple dwelling, and industrial users, but in no
event shall the Default Percentage Discharge be less than 90% or exceed 94%. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 182,076, Eff. 4/6/12.)	(3)	Direct
Measurement/Calculation:	A.	In lieu of paragraphs (1) or (2) above, the Board
may authorize the direct measurement or calculation of the volume of sewage
discharged from a premises in the following circumstances:	i.	Where in the
Board’s judgement, the flows of sewage from the premises are sufficient for
accurate measurement, any user may obtain a permit from the Board and install a
device or devices approved by the Board to measure all the sewage discharged
into the sewer system from the premises.  For purposes of this article, the
total aggregate sewage measured through said device or devices sharing a given
billing period will be deemed to be the sewage volume discharged from the
premises for said billing period.	ii.	Where the plumbing on a premises has been
arranged to isolate the plumbing which serves uses that are tributary to the
sewer from the uses not so tributary, subject to inspection and approval by the
Department of Building and Safety (DBS), a user may obtain Board authority to
install one private water meter for each tributary City water meter serving the
premises.  When the private meter is installed on the tributary service, the
Sewer Service Charge shall be billed based on the volume of water through the
private meter during the billing period.  When the private meter is installed
on the non-tributary service, the Sewer Service Charge shall be billed based on
the difference between the volume through the City meter and the private meter
during the billing period.  A user may allow hose bibbs to remain attached to
the tributary service, but no credit against the Sewer Service Charge shall be
given in such a case.  The Board shall promulgate rules which determine whether
the meter is to be installed on the tributary or non-tributary service.	A user
may choose at any time to revert to volume determination based on the methods in
Paragraphs (1) or (2) above, whichever is applicable; however, such a user may
not again be approved for private metering before 12 months have elapsed since
the effective date of reversion.	The Board may require the user at any time to
install a device to telemeter the data obtained by the metering device back to a
City computer if the installed meter allows for this to be done.	B.	Whenever the
Board has authorized the direct measurement or calculation of sewage volume
discharged from a premises, the user shall bear all responsibility for the
expense of permits, equipment, installation, and maintenance of any private
water meter.  The Board may require periodic testing of installed equipment to
insure reasonable accuracy.  The board may revert a user who does not repair
malfunctioning equipment within the time which the Board may specify to volume
determination based on the methods in paragraphs (1) or (2)  above, whichever
is applicable.	(h)	Low-Income Subsidy:  The Sewer Service Charge shall be
reduced by 31% for low-income Residential users who pay such charges, the
definition of such a class being determined by the Board of Water and Power
Commissioners, subject to verification by the Director of Sanitation, for the
first 18 billing units (a billing unit being each hcf of sewage entering the
sewer system) of each two-month billing period, or the first nine billing units
for each one-month billing period as to any such Residential user billed
monthly.  (Amended by Ord. No. 182,076, Eff. 4/6/12.)	(i)	Low-Income Subsidy
Surcharge:  The Sewer Service Charge to all users, who are not within the class
of a low-income Residential user, as provided in Subsection (h), shall be
increased by a surcharge of 0.84%.	(j)	The sewer service charge for the volume
of sewage introduced into the sewer system from any property not supplied with
water by Water and Power will be determined by the Board and shall be as nearly
as possible equivalent to the sewer service charge established under this
section for similar property supplied with water from Water and Power.	(k)	The
Board shall have the power and duty, and is hereby directed to enforce all of
the provisions of this article, except as otherwise set forth herein, and shall
provide such rules and regulations as are consistent with the provisions of this
article and as may be necessary or desirable to aid in the administration,
including adjustments. and enforcement of the sewer service charge.	(l)	The
Board or any of its authorized representatives may make such inspections or
investigations as said Board deems necessary at any reasonable time in any
building, premises or lot for any of the purposes set forth in this article. No
person shall interfere with, prevent or refuse to permit the entry of said Board
or any of its authorized representatives into or upon any building, premises or
lot for any of the purposes set forth in this article.	(1)	To determine the
size, depth and location of the sewer or storm drain connection;	(2)	To
determine the outlet of an sewer or storm drain connection by depositing testing
materials in any plumbing fixture attached thereto and flushing the same, if
necessary;	(3)	To determine by measurements and samples the quantity of sewage
or waste water being discharged into any sewer, storm drain or water
course;	(4)	To inspect, test and sample the discharge of any device used to
prevent the discharge into any sewer, storm drain, or water course of illegal
waste or illegal quantities of waste, such as floor drains, sand boxes, grease
traps or other clarifiers, also, of those devices used to grind, shred,
pulverize, or otherwise treat garbage or industrial waste before discharging
same into a sewer or storm drain.	(5)	To determine the location of roof,
swimming pool and surface drains, and whether they are connected to a street
gutter, storm drain or sewer.	(6)	To determine the nature and quantity of flow
in any open water course or storm drain.
