                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEFINITIONS. (§ 64.51.01)

  DEFINITIONS.

	For purposes of this article, the following definitions shall apply:

	(a)	“Storm Drainage” – The excess water of the community received by the
storm drain system. From the standpoint of source, it may be a combination of
the runoff from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions, together with any groundwater and surface water that may be
present.

	(b)	“Storm Drain System” – All of the property involved in the operation
of the storm drainage collection and disposal system for the City of Los
Angeles, including conduits, natural or artificial drains, channels and
watercourses, together with appurtenances, pumping stations and equipment.

	(c)	“Average Storm Drainage” – The average amount of storm drainage which
enters the storm drain system from a premises, based on run-off factors
established by the Los Angeles County Flood Control District as defined in
Section 64.51.05 of this article.

	(d)	“Adjustment” – A determination that the volumetric amount of storm
drainage which enters the storm drain system from a premises is deemed to be a
defined amount substantially different from the average storm drainage.

	(e)	“User” – An owner whether private, governmental, or otherwise of a
unit, building, premises or lot in the City of Los Angeles.

	(f)	“Governmental” – A municipal corporation, city and county, county,
state, federal, governmental, political or quasi-public unit, body, agency or
entity.

	(g)	“Parcel” – Means a parcel of real property in the City of Los Angeles
as shown on the local secured tax rolls of the County of Los Angeles.

	(h)	“Board” – The Board of Public Works of the City of Los Angeles.

	(i)	“Owner” – The legal owner of the parcel of real property, except when
the legal owner of said real property is such due to the holding of a mortgage,
note or other such security, in which case the “owner” shall be deemed to be
the beneficial owner of said parcel of real property.

	(j)	“Run-Off Factor” – A number that represents the amount of average
storm drainage from a parcel for a particular land use. Section 64.51.05 of this
article contains a table of run-off factors for each land use type as
established by the Los Angeles County Flood Control District and used in the
calculation of Equivalent Dwelling Units for a parcel.

	(k)	“Basic Assessment Unit (BAU)” – The proportionate run-off from the
average single-family residential parcel. The average single-family residential
parcel has an area of 0.1526 acres (6,650 square feet) and a run-off factor of
0.4176. The product of these (0.0637) is defined as the Basic Assessment Unit.

	(l)	“Equivalent Dwelling Unit (EDU)” – The number of Basic Assessment
Units a particular parcel represents and is determined using the following
formula:



	(m)	“Base Charge” – The fee/charge paid by the average single-family
residential parcel owner. The average single-family residential parcel consists
of one (1.0) Equivalent Dwelling Unit.
