                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ADJUSTMENTS, EXEMPTIONS AND APPEALS. (§ 64.51.09)

  ADJUSTMENTS, EXEMPTIONS AND APPEALS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 175,397, Eff. 9/21/03.)	(a)	The Board shall establish
rules and regulations for the filing, review and determination of adjustments
and exemptions, and consistent with the terms of this section, for any appeals
to the Board from determinations pursuant to this section.	(b)	The Board shall
have the power to provide for adjustments determined by the Board, which
reflect, as reasonably as possible, the receipt from a premises into the storm
drain system of quantities of storm drainage that may be substantially different
from average storm drainage, as this term is used in this section.  In addition
the Board shall have the power to provide for exemptions.	(c)	Where a
determination or adjustment or exemption has become final as provided in this
section, future tax bills shall reflect the adjustment unless otherwise
determined by the Board.	(d)	Any user may apply in writing for an adjustment to
the office designated by the Board within 30 days from the date the tax bill is
mailed or delivered with respect to the period for which the user seeks
adjustment.	(e)	The Board shall provide for action to be taken and determination
to be made upon each application for adjustment or exemption within 30 days from
the date the application is filed, whenever reasonably possible, and shall cause
the applicant to be immediately notified in writing of any determination on the
application for adjustment. The City may request production of additional
information from the applicant, and if the applicant fails to produce the
requested information within 30 days from the date of mailing of the request,
proceedings may be terminated or other action may be taken by the Board as it
deems appropriate.	(f)	Any person who has filed an application for adjustment or
exemption and received a determination, and who has complied with the procedures
of this section, may appeal the determination to the Board pursuant to
procedures, rules and regulations adopted by the Board for that purpose.  An
appeal must be filed within ten days following the date of mailing notice of the
determination on the request for adjustment or exemption. The Board shall set a
time for hearing the matter, and shall mail written notice of the hearing no
fewer than ten days prior to the date of the hearing to the person who has
filed.  The notice shall be mailed postage prepaid to the address designated on
the appeal, and also to the address shown on the original application for
adjustment if that address is different.	(g)	A hearing upon an appeal shall be
set, whenever reasonably possible, no later than 30 days after the date of
filing the appeal.  The Board may continue the hearing from time to time in its
discretion, and shall make a written determination upon the appeal within 15
days from the conclusion of the hearing and provide a copy of the determination
to the person who filed the appeal.	(h)	Any person who has complied with the
procedures of this section, may, within ten days of the mailing date of the
Board’s written determination, referred to in (h) above, appeal the decision
to the City Council by filing a notice of appeal with the City Clerk. This
notice of appeal shall be in writing and set forth specifically where the
appellant believes there was an error or abuse of discretion on the part of the
Board.  The Council may then set a time for hearing the matter, and shall mail
written notice of that hearing no fewer than ten days prior to the date of the
hearing to the person who has so filed.  The notice shall be mailed as provided
in (f) above.  If the City Council fails to act within 30 days after the day of
the filing or the appeal with the City Clerk the appeal shall be deemed
denied.	(i)	An adjustment or exemption determination shall become final upon the
termination of time for filing an appeal to the City Council as provided for in
this section where no appeal has been filed.  In the event an appeal has been
timely filed, the City Council’s ruling on the appeal shall be final and the
City Council shall notify the Board of its determination.  In either event, the
Board shall cause written notice of the final adjustment determination to be
immediately given to the City Clerk.	The filing of an application for adjustment
or exemption, or of an appeal to the Board or City Council from a determination,
shall not stay the continued and further billing of SPAC during the course of
time consumed in the proceedings, but any billing during this time may be
adjusted, if appropriate, at the termination of the proceedings pursuant to and
in conformance with the determination made on the matter.  However, acceptance
of any payment by the Los Angeles County Tax Collector on behalf of the City
subsequent to an application for adjustment shall not preclude billing and
collection of a sum different from, or in excess of, the payments and in
conformance with the final determination.	(j)	Upon the discovery of any mistake
or error pertaining to the application of the Use Code, Area, or Run-Off Factor
that affects the amount of SPAC for a parcel as calculated by the Los Angeles
County Tax Collector, the City shall request that the County make the
appropriate adjustments for future billings.  The City shall have authority to
issue any refund due to the property owner(s).	(k)	Any refunds or adjustments
authorized by this Section are subject to the following:	If the amount to be
refunded or adjusted does not exceed $10,000, the Director or the designated
head of the Bureau of Sanitation or designee is authorized to adjust the billing
or submit the appropriate refund to the property owner(s).	If the amount to be
refunded or adjusted is greater than $10,000, the Board of Public Works must
approve authorization for the refund or adjustment.	If the amount to be refunded
or adjusted exceeds the intra-departmental transfer limit pursuant to City
Charter Section 343(a), (b) and (c), the City Council must approve authorization
for the refund or adjustment.
