                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

GENERAL PROVISIONS. (§ 64.70)

  GENERAL PROVISIONS.
	(Article and Section Added by Ord. No. 172,176, Eff. 10/1/98.)

	A.	Title.  This article is known as “Stormwater and Urban Runoff Pollution
Control” and may be so cited.

	B.	Objectives.  This article sets forth uniform requirements and prohibitions
for dischargers and places of discharge to the storm drain system, and the
receiving waters, necessary to adequately enforce and administer all laws and
lawful standards and orders or special orders, that provide for the protection,
enhancement and restoration of water quality.  Through a program employing
watershed-based approaches that balance environmental and economic
considerations, under the jurisdiction of the Board of Public Works, the City
seeks to protect and promote the public health, safety, and general prosperity
of its citizens with the implementation of the following objectives:

	1.	To comply with all Federal and State laws, lawful standards and orders
applicable to stormwater and urban runoff pollution control;

	2.	To prohibit any discharge which may interfere with the operation of, or
cause any damage to the storm drain system, or impair the beneficial use of the
receiving waters;

	3.	To prohibit illicit discharges to the storm drain system;

	4.	To reduce stormwater runoff pollution;

	5.	To reduce non-stormwater discharge to the storm drain system to the maximum
extent practicable; and

	6.	To develop and implement effective educational outreach programs designed to
educate the public on issues of stormwater and urban runoff pollution.

	C.	Scope.  This article provides for the control and regulation of discharges
to the storm drain system and receiving waters, through a program of education
and enforcement of general and specific prohibitions and requirements.  This
article applies to all dischargers and places of discharge located within the
City of Los Angeles that discharge stormwater or non-stormwater into any storm
drain system or receiving waters.  Except as otherwise provided herein, the
Director, under the jurisdiction of the Board of Public Works, shall administer,
implement and enforce the provisions of this ordinance.

	D.	Violations.  Any person violating any of the provisions or failing to
comply with the mandatory requirements of this article, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor unless such violation or failure is declared herein to be an
infraction.
