                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

STORMWATER POLLUTION CONTROL MEASURES FOR DEVELOPMENT PLANNING AND CONSTRUCTION
ACTIVITIES. (§ 64.72)

  STORMWATER POLLUTION CONTROL MEASURES FOR DEVELOPMENT PLANNING AND
CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 181,899, Eff. 11/14/11, Oper. 5/12/12.)	(A)	Objective. 
The provisions of this Section contain requirements for construction activities
and facility operations of Development and Redevelopment projects to comply with
the requirements of the Standard Urban Stormwater Mitigation Plan, integrate LID
practices and standards for stormwater pollution mitigation, and maximize open,
green and pervious space on all Developments and Redevelopments consistent with
the City’s landscape ordinance and other related requirements in the
Development Best Management Practices Handbook.  LID shall be inclusive of
SUSMP requirements.	(B)	Scope.  This Section contains requirements for
stormwater pollution control measures in Development and Redevelopment projects
and authorizes the Board to further define and adopt stormwater pollution
control measures, develop LID principles and requirements, including but not
limited to the objectives and specifications for integration of LID strategies,
collect Best Management Practices compliance plan check fees, grant waivers from
the requirements of the Standard Urban Stormwater Mitigation Plan, collect funds
for projects that are granted waivers, conduct inspections, cite violators for
infractions, and impose fines.  Except as otherwise provided herein, the Board
shall administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this Section.	(C)	LID
Requirements.  All Developments and Redevelopments shall comply with the
following:	1.	Development or Redevelopment Involving Four or Fewer Units
Intended for Residential Use.	a.	Development or Redevelopment less than one acre
shall implement LID BMP alternatives identified in the Development Best
Management Practices Handbook; and	b.	Development or Redevelopment one acre or
greater shall comply with the standards and requirements of this Article and
with the Development Best Management Practices Handbook.	2.	Development or
Redevelopment Involving Nonresidential Use or Five or More Units Intended for
Residential Use.	a.	Development or Redevelopment resulting in an alteration of
at least fifty percent (50%) or more of the impervious surfaces on an existing
developed Site, the entire Site must comply with the standards and requirements
of this Article and with the Development Best Management Practices Handbook;
and	b.	Development or Redevelopment resulting in an alteration of less than
fifty percent (50%) of the impervious surfaces of an existing developed Site,
only such incremental Development shall comply with the standards and
requirements of this Article and with the Development Best Management Practices
Handbook.	3.	A Development or Redevelopment of any size that would create 2,500
square feet or more of impervious surface area and is located partly or wholly
within an ESA shall comply with the standards and requirements of this Article
and with the Development Best Management Practices Handbook.	4.	The Site for
every Development or Redevelopment shall be designed to manage and capture
stormwater runoff, to the maximum extent feasible, in priority order: 
infiltration, evapotranspiration, capture and use, treated through high removal
efficiency biofiltration/biotreatment system of all of the runoff on site. 
High removal efficiency biofiltration/biotreatment systems shall comply with the
standards and requirements of the Development Best Management Practices
Handbook.  A LID Plan shall be prepared to comply with the
following:	a.	Stormwater runoff will be infiltrated, evapotranspired, captured
and used, treated through high removal efficiency Best Management Practices,
onsite, through stormwater management techniques that comply with the provisions
of the Development Best Management Practices Handbook.  To the maximum extent
feasible, onsite stormwater management techniques must be properly sized, at a
minimum, to infiltrate, evapotranspire, store for use, treat through high
removal efficiency biofiltration/biotreatment system, without any storm water
runoff leaving the Site for at least the volume of water produced by the quality
design storm event that results from:	(i)	The 85th percentile 24-hour runoff
event determined as the maximized capture stormwater volume for the area using a
48 to 72-hour draw down time, from the formula recommended in Urban Runoff
Quality Management, WEF Manual of Practice No. 23/ASCE Manual of Practice No.
87, (1998); or	(ii)	The volume of annual runoff based on unit basin storage
water quality volume, to achieve 80 percent or more volume treatment by the
method recommended in the California Stormwater Best Management Practices
Handbook – Industrial/Commercial, (2003); or	(iii)	The volume of runoff
produced from a 0.75 inch storm event.	For purposes of compliance with the LID
requirements, and without changing the priority order of design preferences
identified in this Section, all runoff from the water quality design storm
event, as identified in Paragraph (a) of this Subdivision, that has been treated
through an onsite high removal efficiency biofiltration/biotreatment system
shall be deemed to have achieved 100% infiltration regardless of the runoff
leaving the Site from an onsite high removal efficiency
biofiltration/biotreatment system, and thus any runoff volume shall not be
subject to the offsite mitigation requirement of this Article.	b.	Pollutants
shall be prevented from leaving the Site for a water quality design storm event
as defined in Paragraph (a) of this Subdivision unless it has been treated
through an onsite high removal efficiency biofiltration/biotreatment
system.	c.	Hydromodification impacts shall be minimized to natural drainage
systems as defined in the MS4 Permit. 	5.	When, as determined by the Director,
the onsite LID requirements are technically infeasible, partially or fully, as
defined in the Development Best Management Handbook, the infeasibility shall be
demonstrated in the submitted LID Plan, shall be consistent with other City
requirements, and shall be reviewed in consultation with the Department of
Building and Safety.  The technical infeasibility may result from conditions
that may include, but are not limited to:	a.	Locations where seasonal high
groundwater is within ten feet of surface grade;	b.	Locations within 100 feet of
a groundwater well used for drinking water;	c.	Brownfield Development sites or
other locations where pollutant mobilization is a documented
concern;	d.	Locations with potential geotechnical hazards;	e.	Locations with
impermeable soil type as indicated in applicable soils and geotechnical reports;
and	f.	Other site or implementation constraints identified in the Development
Best Management Practices Handbook.	6.	If partial or complete onsite compliance
of any type is technically infeasible, the project Site and LID Plan shall be
required to comply with all applicable Standard Urban Stormwater Mitigation Plan
(SUSMP) requirements in order to maximize onsite compliance.  For the remaining
runoff that cannot feasibly be managed onsite, the project shall implement
offsite mitigation on public and/or private land within the same sub-watershed
out of the following five sub-watersheds:  Upper Los Angeles River, Lower Los
Angeles River, Ballona Creek, Santa Monica Bay, and Dominguez Channel.  This
shall include construction and perpetual maintenance of projects that will
achieve at least the same level of runoff retention, infiltration and/or use,
and water quality.  All City Departments will assist the developer, when and
where feasible, in the design, permitting and implementation of LID BMP projects
within the public right of way, with a preference for utilizing the public right
of way immediately adjacent to the subject development.	7.	A Multi-Phased
Project may comply with the standards and requirements of this Section for all
of its phases by:  (a) designing a system acceptable to the Bureau of
Sanitation to satisfy these standards and requirements for the entire Site
during the first phase, and (b) implementing these standards and requirements
for each phase of Development or Redevelopment of the Site during the first
phase or prior to commencement of construction of a later phase, to the extent
necessary to treat the stormwater from such later phase.  For purposes of this
Section, “Multi-Phased Project” shall mean any Development or Redevelopment
implemented over more than one phase and the Site of a Multi-Phased Project
shall include any land and water area designed and used to store, treat or
manage stormwater runoff in connection with the Development or Redevelopment,
including any tracts, lots, or parcels of real property, whether Developed or
not, associated with, functionally connected to, or under common ownership or
control with such Development or Redevelopment.	8.	The Director shall prepare,
maintain, and update, as deemed necessary and appropriate, the Development Best
Management Practices Handbook to set LID standards and practices and standards
for stormwater pollution mitigation, including urban and stormwater runoff
quantity and quality control development principles and technologies for
achieving the LID standards. The Development Best Management Practices Handbook
shall also include technical feasibility and implementation parameters,
alternative compliance for technical infeasibility, as well as other rules,
requirements and procedures as the Director deems necessary for implementing the
provisions of this Section of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.  The Board of
Public Works shall adopt the Development Best Management Practices Handbook no
later than 90 days after the adoption of this Ordinance by the City Council and
the Mayor.	9.	The Director of the Bureau of Sanitation shall develop as deemed
necessary and appropriate, in cooperation with other City departments and
stakeholders, informational bulletins, training manuals and educational
materials to assist in the implementation of the LID requirements.	10.	The
applicant can appeal the Director’s determination of compliance with the
provisions of this Article to the Board of Public Works within 30 days of the
date of the determination.	11.	Any Development or Redevelopment that is exempted
from LID requirements under section D. has the option to voluntarily opt in and
incorporate into the project the LID requirements set forth herein.  In such
case, the Best Management Practices plan check fee associated with the project
shall be waived and all LID related plan check processes shall be
expedited.	12.	Any Development or Redevelopment exempted from this Ordinance
under section D. shall comply with all applicable SUSMP
requirements.	(D)	Exceptions to LID Requirements.  The provisions of this
Section do not apply to any of the following:	1.	A Development or Redevelopment
that only creates, adds or replaces less than 500 square feet of impervious
area;	2.	A Development or Redevelopment involving only emergency construction
activity required to immediately protect public health and
safety; 	3.	Infrastructure projects within the public right-of-way;	4.	A
Development or Redevelopment involving only activity related to gas, water,
cable, or electricity services on private property;	5.	A Development or
Redevelopment involving only re-striping of permitted parking lots;	6.	A project
involving only exterior movie or television production sets, or facades on an
existing developed site.	(E)	Other Agencies of the City of Los Angeles.  All
City of Los Angeles departments, offices, entities and agencies, shall establish
administrative procedures necessary to implement the provisions of this Article
on their Development and Redevelopment projects and report their activities
annually to the Board of Public Works.
