                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEFINITIONS AND ABBREVIATIONS. (§ 64.70.01)

  DEFINITIONS AND ABBREVIATIONS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 181,899, Eff. 11/14/11, Oper. 5/12/12.)	A.	Definitions. 
For the purpose of this Article, the following words and phrases are defined and
shall be construed as set out here, unless it is apparent from the context that
they have a different meaning:	1.	“Basin Plan” means a Water Quality Control
Plan adopted by the California Regional Water Quality Control Board for a
specific watershed or designated area.	2.	“Best Management Practice (BMP)”
means activities, practices, facilities, and/or procedures that when implemented
will reduce or prevent pollutants in discharges.	3.	“Board” means the Board
of Public Works of the City of Los Angeles or its duly authorized
representative.	4.	“Bureau” means the Bureau of Sanitation of the City of
Los Angeles or its duly authorized representative.	5.	“City” means the City
of Los Angeles or its duly authorized representatives.	6.	“Clean Water Act
(CWA)” means the Federal Water Pollution Control Act enacted in 1972, by
Public Law 92-500, and amended by the Water Quality Act of 1987.  The Clean
Water Act prohibits the discharge of pollutants to Waters of the United States
unless the discharge is in accordance with an NPDES permit.	7.	“Commercial
Activity” means any public or private activity involved in the storage,
transportation, distribution, exchange or sale of goods and/or commodities or
providing professional and/or non-professional services.	8.	“Construction
Activity” means clearing, grading, or excavating that results in soil
disturbance.  Construction activity does not include routine maintenance to
maintain original line and grade, hydraulic capacity, or the original purpose of
the facility, nor does it include emergency construction activities required to
immediately protect public health and/or safety.	9.	“Control” means to
minimize, reduce or eliminate by technological, legal, contractual or other
means, the discharge of pollutants from an activity or
activities.	10.	“Development” means the construction, rehabilitation,
redevelopment or reconstruction of any public or private residential project
(whether single-family, multi-unit or planned unit development); industrial,
commercial, retail and any other non-residential projects, including public
agency projects; or mass grading for future construction.	11.	“Development
Best Management Practices Handbook” means such handbook, as may be amended
from time to time, adopted by the Board of Public Works. 	12.	“Director”
means the Director of the Bureau of Sanitation of the Department of Public Works
of the City of Los Angeles or the duly authorized representatives designated to
administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this
Article.	13.	“Discharge” means any release, spill, leak, pump, flow, escape,
dumping, or disposal of any liquid, semi-solid or solid
substance.	14.	“Environmentally Sensitive Areas (ESAs)” means an area in
which plant or animal life or their habitats are either rare or especially
valuable because of their special nature or role in an ecosystem and which would
be easily disturbed or degraded by human activities and developments (See
California Public Resources Code § 30107.5).  ESAs include, but are not
limited to, areas designated as Significant Ecological Areas by the County of
Los Angeles (Los Angeles County Significant Areas Study, Los Angeles County
Department of Regional Planning (1976) and amendments); areas designated as
Significant Natural Areas by the California Department of Fish and Game’s
Significant Natural Areas Program and field verified by the Department of Fish
and Game; and areas listed in the Basin Plan as supporting the “Rare,
Threatened, or Endangered Species (RARE)” beneficial use.	15.	“Hazardous
Material(s)” means any material(s) defined as hazardous by Division 20,
Chapter 6.95 of the California Health and Safety Code.	16.	“Illicit
Connection” means any man-made conveyance that is connected directly to the
storm drain system, excluding roof-drains, and any other similar connection that
serves as a pathway for any illicit discharge.	17.	“Illicit Discharge” means
any discharge to the storm drain system that is prohibited under local, state or
federal statutes, ordinances, codes or regulations.  Illicit discharges include
all non-stormwater discharges except discharges pursuant to an NPDES permit or
discharges that are exempted or conditionally exempted by the NPDES permit or
granted as a special waiver or exemption by the Regional
Board.	18.	“Impervious Surface” means any man-made or modified surface that
prevents or significantly reduces the entry of water into the underlying soil,
resulting in runoff from the surface in greater quantities and/or at an
increased rate, when compared to natural conditions prior to development. 
Examples of places that commonly exhibit impervious surfaces include parking
lots, driveways, roadways, storage areas, and rooftops.  The imperviousness of
these areas commonly results from paving, compacted gravel, compacted earth, and
oiled earth.	19.	“Industrial Activity” means any public or private activity
that is associated with any of the 11 categories of activities defined in 40 CFR
122.26(b)(14) and required to obtain a NPDES
permit.	20.	“Industrial/Commercial Facility” means any facility involved
and/or used in either the production, manufacture, storage, transportation,
distribution, exchange or sale of goods and/or commodities, and any facility
involved and/or used in providing professional and non-professional services. 
This category of facility includes, but is not limited to, any facility defined
by the Standard Industrial Classifications (SIC).  Facility ownership (federal,
state, municipal, private) and profit motive of the facility are not factors in
this Definition.	21.	“LID” means Low Impact Development.	22.	“Maximum
Extent Practicable (MEP)” means the standard for implementation of stormwater
management programs to reduce pollutants in stormwater.  MEP refers to
stormwater management programs taken as a whole.  It is the maximum extent
possible taking into account equitable considerations and competing facts,
including but not limited to, the gravity of the problem, public health risk,
societal concern, environmental benefits, pollutant removal effectiveness,
regulatory compliance, public acceptance, ability to implement, cost, and
technical feasibility.  Section 402(p) of the Clean Water Act requires that
municipal permits shall require controls to reduce the discharge of pollutants
to the maximum extent practicable, including management practices, control
techniques and systems, design and engineering methods, and other provisions as
the Administrator or the State determines appropriate for the control of these
pollutants.	23.	“National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES)”
means a permit issued by the U.S. EPA, State Water Resources Control Board, or
the California Regional Water Quality Control Board pursuant to the Clean Water
Act that authorizes discharges to Waters of the United States and requires the
reduction of pollutants in the discharge.	24.	“Non-Stormwater Discharge”
means any discharge to a municipal storm drain system that is not composed
entirely of stormwater.	25.	“Person” means any individual, partnership,
co-partnership, firm, company, corporation, association, joint stock company,
trust, estate, governmental entity or any other legal entity, or their legal
representatives, agents or assigns.  The masculine gender shall include the
feminine and the singular shall include the plural where indicated by the
context.	26.	“Pollutant” means any “pollutant” defined in Section 502(6)
of the Federal Clean Water Act or incorporated into the California Water Code
Sec. 13373.  Pollutants may include, but are not limited to the
following:	(a)	Commercial and industrial waste (such as fuels, solvents,
detergents, plastic pellets, hazardous substances, fertilizers, pesticides,
slag, ash, and sludge);	(b)	Metals (such as cadmium, lead, zinc, copper, silver,
nickel, chromium, and non- metals such as phosphorus and arsenic);	(c)	Petroleum
hydrocarbons (such as fuels, lubricants, surfactants, waste oils, solvents,
coolants, and grease);	(d)	Excessive eroded soil, sediment, and particulate
materials in amounts that may adversely affect the beneficial use of the
receiving waters, flora or fauna of the State;	(e)	Animal wastes (such as
discharge from confinement facilities, kennels, pens, recreational facilities,
stables, and show facilities); and	(f)	Substances having characteristics such as
pH less than 6 or greater than 9, or unusual coloration or turbidity, or
excessive levels of fecal coliform, or fecal streptococcus, or
enterococcus.	27.	“Receiving Waters” means all surface water bodies within
Los Angeles County that are identified by the Regional Board in a Basin
Plan.	28.	“Redevelopment” means land-disturbing activity that results in the
creation, addition, or replacement of 500 square feet or more of impervious
surface area on an already developed Site.  Redevelopment includes, but is not
limited to:  the expansion of a building footprint; addition or replacement of
a structure; replacement of impervious surface area that is not part of routine
maintenance activity; and land disturbing activity related to structural or
impervious surfaces.  It does not include routine maintenance to maintain
original line and grade, hydraulic capacity, or original purpose of facility,
nor does it include emergency construction activities required to immediately
protect public health and safety.	29.	“Regional Board” means the California
Regional Water Quality Control Board, Los Angeles Region.	30.	“Rules and
Regulations” shall mean Rules and Regulations adopted by the Board of Public
Works Governing Pollution Control of Discharges into the Storm Drain
System.	31.	“Site” means land or water area where any “facility or
activity” is physically located or conducted, including adjacent land used in
connection with the facility or activity.	32.	“Storm Drain System” means any
facilities or any part of those facilities, including streets, gutters,
conduits, natural or artificial drains, channels and watercourses that are used
for the purpose of collecting, storing, transporting or disposing of stormwater
and are located within the City of Los Angeles.	33.	“Storm Water or
Stormwater” means water that originates from atmospheric moisture (rainfall or
snow melt) and that falls onto land, water, or other surfaces.  Without any
change in its meaning, this term may be spelled or written as one word or two
separate words.	34.	“Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP)” means a
plan required by and for which contents are specified in the State of California
General Permit for Storm Water Discharges Associated with Industrial Activities
or for Stormwater Discharges Associated with Construction
Activities.	35.	“Stormwater Runoff” means that part of precipitation
(rainfall or snowmelt) which travels across a surface to the storm drain system
or receiving waters.	36.	“Toxic Materials” For purposes of compliance with
the Los Angeles County Municipal Stormwater Permit, the term “toxic
materials” means any material(s) or combination of materials that directly or
indirectly cause either acute or chronic toxicity in the water
column.	37.	“Untreated” means non stormwater runoff, wastewater or wash
waters that have not been subjected to any applicable Treatment Control, Best
Management Practices or are not in compliance with conditions of a separate or
general NPDES permit.	38.	“Urban Runoff” means surface water flow produced
by storm and non-storm events.  Non-storm events include flow from residential,
commercial or industrial activities involving the use of potable and non-potable
water.
