                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

POLLUTANT DISCHARGE CONTROL. (§ 64.70.02)

  POLLUTANT DISCHARGE CONTROL.
	(Added by Ord. No. 172,176, Eff. 10/1/98.)	A.	General Discharge Prohibitions. 
No person shall discharge, cause, permit, or contribute to the discharge of any
of the following to the storm drain system or receiving waters:	1.	Any liquids,
solids or gases which by reason of their nature or quantity are flammable,
reactive, explosive, corrosive, or radioactive, or by interaction with other
materials could result in fire, explosion or injury.	2.	Any solid or viscous
materials which could cause obstruction to the flow or operation of the storm
drain system.	3.	Any pollutant that injures or constitutes a hazard to human,
animal, plant, or fish life, or creates a public nuisance.	4.	Any noxious or
malodorous liquid, gas, or solid in sufficient quantity, either singly or by
interaction with other materials, which creates a public nuisance, hazard to
life, or inhibits authorized entry of any person into the storm drain
system.	5.	Any medical, infectious, toxic or hazardous material or
waste.	B.	Controlling the Discharge of Pollutants Associated with Industrial or
Commercial Activities.  Except as allowed under a general or separate NPDES
permit, the following prohibitions apply to all persons operating or performing
any industrial or commercial activities within the City of Los Angeles:	1.	No
person shall discharge, cause or permit the discharge of untreated wastewater
from steam cleaning, mobile carpet cleaning, or from other such mobile
commercial or industrial operations into the storm drain system.	2.	No person
shall discharge, cause or permit any discharge of untreated runoff containing
grease, oil, antifreeze, other fluids from machinery, equipment, tools or motor
vehicles, or hazardous substances into the storm drain system.	3.	No person
shall discharge, cause or permit the discharge of untreated runoff from the
washing of toxic materials from paved or unpaved areas into the storm drain
system.	4.	No person shall discharge, cause or permit the discharge of
wastewater from the washing out of concrete trucks into the storm drain
system.	5.	Violation of any of the following prohibitions within this
subdivision shall be punishable as a infraction:	(a)	No person shall discharge,
cause or permit the discharge of untreated wash water from gas stations, auto
repair garages, or from other types of automotive facilities into the storm
drain system.	(b)	No person shall discharge, cause or permit the discharge of
untreated runoff from the washing of impervious surfaces into the storm drain
system.  This provision shall apply unless the washing is specifically required
by State or local health and safety codes or unless the discharge is
conditionally exempt as street or sidewalk washing as provided in Subdivision 2,
Subsection A of Section 64.70.03 of this article.	(c)	No person shall discharge,
cause or permit the discharge of food wastes from the washing of any floor
coverings such as duck boards, grates, mats or rugs from any commercial kitchen,
or from any other commercial food preparation or processing activity, into the
storm drain system.	(d)	No person shall discharge, cause or permit the discharge
of commercial/public swimming pool filter backwash into the storm drain
system. 	C.	Controlling Spills, Dumping Or Disposal Of Materials To The Storm
Drain System.  This subsection applies to all persons within the City of Los
Angeles and is in addition to any other anti-littering provisions provided in
Sections: 56.08, 57.21.06, 62.54, 66.04, and 66.25 of this Code.	1.	The
following prohibitions apply to all persons within the City of Los Angeles and
any violation of this subdivision shall be punishable as a misdemeanor:	(a)	No
person shall throw, deposit, leave, cause or permit to be thrown, deposited,
placed, or left, any refuse, rubbish, garbage, or other discarded or abandoned
objects, articles, and accumulations, in or upon any street, gutter, alley,
sidewalk, storm drain, inlet, catch basin, conduit or other drainage structures,
business place, or upon any public or private lot of land in the City so that
such materials, when exposed to stormwater or any runoff, become a pollutant in
the storm drain system.	(b)	No person shall intentionally dispose or cause the
disposal of leaves, dirt, or other landscape debris into the storm drain
system.	(c)	No person shall spill, dump or dispose any pesticide, fungicide, or
herbicide, into the storm drain system.	(d)	No person shall leave, dispose,
cause or permit the disposal of hazardous wastes in a manner that results or
potentially could result in a spill, leak or drainage of these wastes onto any
sidewalk, street or gutter that discharges into or flows with any other runoff
into the storm drain system. (Amended by Ord. No. 175,026, Eff. 2/2/03.)	(e)	No
person shall store fuels, chemicals, fuel and chemical wastes, animal wastes,
garbage, batteries and any toxic or hazardous material(s) in a manner that
causes or potentially could cause the runoff of pollutants from these materials
or wastes into the storm drain system.  (Amended by Ord. No. 175,026, Eff.
2/2/03.)	(f)	No person shall dispose, discharge, or permit the discharge of any
sanitary or septage wastes from any source into the storm drain
system.	D.	Requirement to Prevent, Control, and Reduce Stormwater Pollutants. 
Any owner or operator of a facility or business within the City of Los Angeles
engaged in activities or operations as listed in the Critical Sources
Categories, Section III of the Board’s Rules and Regulations shall be required
to implement Best Management Practices (BMPs) as promulgated in the Rules and
Regulations.  Any owner/developer of a property under construction within the
City of Los Angeles or his designated representative shall be required to
implement the stormwater pollution control requirements for construction
activities as depicted in the project plans approved by the Department of
Building and Safety.  In the event a specified BMP proves to be ineffective or
infeasible, the Director may require additional and/or alternative,
site-specific BMPs or conditions deemed appropriate to achieve the objectives of
this ordinance as defined in Subsection B of LAMC Section 64.70.  Any violation
or failure to implement a BMP in a timely manner shall be punishable as an
infraction, unless the violation or failure is declared in this Code to be a
misdemeanor.  (Added by Ord. No. 175,026, Eff. 2/2/03.)	E.	Controlling
Pollutants From Parking Lots.  Any owner or operator of industrial/commercial
motor vehicle parking lots with more than twenty-five (25) parking spaces that
are located in areas potentially exposed to storm water shall be required
through regular sweeping or other effective measures to remove all debris during
the period between October 1 and April 15.  Violation of this subsection shall
be punishable as an infraction.  (Former Subsection D. re-designated Subsection
E. by Ord. No. 175,026, Eff. 2/2/03.)
