                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

AUTHORITY TO INSPECT. (§ 64.70.05)

  AUTHORITY TO INSPECT.
	(Added by Ord. No. 172,176, Eff. 10/1/98.)	A.	Authority to Inspect.  Whenever
it is necessary to investigate the source of any discharge to any public street,
inlet, gutter, or storm drainage system within the City of Los Angeles, to
verify compliance with this article, or to enforce any of its provisions, or
perform any duty imposed by this article or other applicable law, the Director
is hereby authorized to enter such private property at any reasonable time and
perform such inspection or investigation.  Prior to performing any authorized
inspections, entry to private property shall be obtained as follows:	1.	If such
building or premises is occupied, the Director shall first present proper
credentials of identification and obtain either the consent of the owner or
occupant of the private property or shall obtain an administrative warrant or
criminal search warrant; or	2.	If such building or premises is unoccupied, the
Director shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other
persons having charge or control of the building or premises and request entry,
explaining the reasons therefor.  If such entry is refused or cannot be
obtained because the owner or other person having charge or control of the
building or premises cannot be found, the Director shall have recourse to every
remedy provided by law to secure entry and inspect the building or
premises.	3.	Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Director has reasonable
belief that the discharges emanating from the premises are so hazardous, unsafe
or dangerous as to require immediate inspection or remedial actions to abate
conditions that endanger the public health or safety, the Director shall have
the right to immediately enter the premises.  Any reasonable means may be used
to effect such entry to make the necessary inspection or abate the dangerous
condition, whether the property is occupied or unoccupied and whether or not
formal permission to inspect has been obtained.  If the property is occupied,
the Director shall first present proper credentials of identification to the
occupant and demand entry, explaining the reasons therefor and the purpose of
the inspection.	(a)	In accordance with this subdivision, no person shall refuse,
resist, restrict, delay, or interfere with the Director in the performance of
his/her duties.	B.	Inspection Duties.  Upon securing entry onto private
property, the Director shall be allowed to perform the following duties during
an inspection:	1.	To inspect, take samples of any area runoff, process discharge
or materials within any exposed waste storage area and perform tests for the
purpose of determining the potential for the contribution of pollutants to the
storm drain system;	2.	To place on the property of the inspected facility or
site any such devices as are necessary to sample, monitor, measure and record
flows of discharge or threatened discharge;	3.	To inspect, examine and copy all
records of the owner or occupant of inspected property that pertains to any
discharge to the storm drain system, including records relating to chemicals or
processes presently or previously occurring on the site, NPDES permit, Notice of
Intent to comply with a General NPDES permit, waste discharge records, waste
manifests, Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plans, monitoring plans, test
results, any records or plans relating to discharge connections to the storm
drain system and any other information required to carry out the provisions of
this article;	4.	To inspect and enforce the sufficient implementation of
applicable Best Management Practices by the business establishment, property
owner and/or developer;  (Added by Ord. No. 175,026, Eff. 2/2/03.)	5.	To
photograph any materials, storage or process areas, wastes, waste containers,
vehicles, connections, Best Management Practices, treatment systems, discharge
location(s), or any violation(s) discovered during the inspection; and (Former
Subdivision B.4. re-designated Subdivision B.5. by Ord. No. 175,026, Eff.
2/2/03.)	6.	To abate, correct or prevent pollutants from entering the storm
drain system or surface waters.  (Former Subdivision B.5. re-designated
Subdivision B.6. by Ord. No. 175,026, Eff. 2/2/03.)
