                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ELIMINATION OF ILLICIT DISCHARGES AND ILLICIT CONNECTIONS. (§ 64.70.03)

  ELIMINATION OF ILLICIT DISCHARGES AND ILLICIT CONNECTIONS.
	(Added by Ord. No. 172,176, Eff. 10/1/98.)	A.	Prohibition of Illicit
Discharges.  No person shall discharge non-storm water to the storm drain
system, unless authorized by a separate or general NPDES Permit or if the
discharge is exempted or conditionally exempted by the Municipal Storm Water and
Urban Runoff NPDES Permit for Los Angeles County, as provided or as subsequently
amended or if granted as a special waiver or exemption by the Regional
Board.	1.	Exempt Discharges.  The following non-stormwater discharges are
exempt from obtaining a separate or general NPDES permit and are allowed to be
discharged into the storm drain system:	(a)	Flows from riparian habitats or
wetlands;	(b)	Diverted stream flows;	(c)	Flows from natural springs;	(d)	Rising
ground waters;	(e)	Uncontaminated ground water infiltration; and	(f)	Discharge
or flows from emergency fire fighting activities.	2.	Conditionally Exempt
Discharges. The following non-stormwater discharges may be allowed to be
discharged into the storm drain system, subject to all appropriate BMPs.  The
Board may review and adopt appropriate BMPs for any conditionally exempt
discharges and place said BMPs in the Board’s “Rules and Regulations
Governing the Discharge of Conditionally Exempt Non-Stormwater Discharges”. 
The Board may from time to time, as it deems appropriate, change, modify, revise
or alter existing BMPs.  It shall be the responsibility of any discharger to
comply with all Board adopted BMPs in existence at the time of discharge of any
non-stormwater discharge set forth on this Conditionally Exempt Discharge
list.  If the Board has not adopted BMPs for any of the below listed
discharges, the discharger may allow such a discharge provided it is in
compliance with all other requirements of the “Stormwater and Urban Runoff
Pollution Control Ordinance”. Discharge of any of the below listed
“Conditionally Exempt Discharges” at a time prior to the Board’s adoption
of BMPs for that particular discharge shall not relieve the discharger from
compliance with the BMPs for the discharge once they are adopted by the Board. 
The “Conditionally Exempt Discharges” are as follows:	(a)	Discharges from
lawn and landscape irrigation;	(b)	Water line flushing;	(c)	Discharges from
potable water sources;	(d)	Foundation drains;	(e)	Footing drains;	(f)	Air
conditioning condensate;	(g)	Irrigation water;	(h)	Water from crawl space
pumps;	(i)	Dechlorinated/debrominated swimming pool discharges; (Amended by Ord.
No. 175,026, Eff. 2/2/03.)	(j)	Discharges from individual residential car
washing;	(k)	Discharges from non-profit car washing;	(l)	Street washing
(including sidewalk washing); and	(m)	Other categories approved by the Executive
Officer of the California Regional Water Quality Control Board, Los Angeles
Region or an authorized representative.	B.	Illicit Connections.  It is
prohibited to establish, use, maintain, or continue illicit drainage connections
to the City storm drain system, and to commence or continue any illicit
discharges to the City storm drain system.  This prohibition applies to
connections made in the past.  Improperly installed or defective rain diversion
systems or devices that release pollutants into the storm drain system shall be
considered illicit connections and shall be subject to removal or modifications.
One year after the effective date of this article and after notification of the
illicit connection, a person has ninety (90) days to remove or modify such
connection.  Any extension of time for removal or modification must be approved
by the Board.	C.	Storm Drain Connection Permits.  No permit for any storm drain
connection as required under Section 64.12 of this Code, shall be issued until
the Board is satisfied that the discharge from the permitted connection will be
in compliance with the provisions of this article and all applicable Federal and
State discharge regulations or requirements.	D.	Discharges Permitted By
Industrial Wastewater Permits.  Industrial Wastewater Permits issued for
discharges of non-stormwater to the storm drain system, Waters of the State, and
industrial waste discharges to points other than to the City’s Publicly Owned
Treatment Works (POTW), that were previously permitted under Section 64.30 of
this Code, shall be canceled by the Director.  No Industrial Wastewater Permit
will be required for discharges to any point other than to the POTW.
