                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEFINITIONS. (§ 66.00)

  DEFINITIONS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 118,900, Eff. 6/3/61)

	For the purpose of this article, the following words and phrases are defined
and shall be construed as hereinafter set out, unless it shall be apparent from
the context that they have a different meaning:

	1.	Refuse shall mean any combination of rubbish and garbage.

	(a)	Household Refuse shall mean any combination of rubbish and garbage
generated at a private residence or that part of any place used as a private
residence except a hotel, motel or tourist camp as those places are defined in
this article.

	(b)	Commercial Refuse shall mean either rubbish or any combination of rubbish
and garbage generated at such hotel, motel, tourist camp or place or part
thereof used other than as a private residence.

	2.	Garbage shall mean either animal or vegetable residue or any combination
thereof resulting from any use of a food, beverage or mixture of food and
beverage except food plant waste, market waste or dead animals.

	(a)	Household garbage shall mean all garbage other than commercial garbage.

	(b)	Commercial garbage shall mean garbage resulting from the preparation or
other processing of a food, beverage or mixture thereof for consumption on the
premises of any place other than a private residence .

	(c)	Food Plant Waste shall mean either animal or vegetable matter or any
combination thereof resulting from the manufacture, production or other creation
of a food, beverage or mixture thereof for any commercial use, elsewhere than at
the place where manufactured, produced or otherwise created.

	(d)	Market Waste or Market Refuse shall mean either animal or vegetable matter
or any combination thereof which accumulates for disposal at any place other
than the place of ultimate consumption by reason of any change in its form or
condition during the process of marketing such matter. (Amended by Ord. No.
157,681, Eff. 6/13/83.)

	3.	Rubbish shall mean any combination of combustible, noncombustible or
building material rubbish.

	(a)	Combustible Rubbish shall mean paper and paper products; cloth and
clothing, carpets, linoleum and similar floor coverings; feathers; grass and
tree and shrubbery trimmings; leather and leather products; rubber and rubber
products; plastics; straw and other combustible packing; wood and wood products;
and similar articles that will incinerate through contact with flames of
ordinary temperature.

	(b)	Noncombustible Rubbish shall mean ashes, bottles, broken crockery, rubbish,
metals, construction material other than building material rubbish, and other
similar household substances that will not incinerate through contact with
flames of ordinary temperature.

	(i)	Ashes shall mean that noncombustible rubbish which is the solid residue
from the thorough burning of combustible substances.

	(ii)	Metals shall mean that noncombustible rubbish which is principally made of
metal such as tin cans, toys and other similar items designated as such by the
Board.

	(c)	Building Material Rubbish shall mean either any unusual quantity, as
further defined by the Board by rule or regulation, of combustible rubbish such
as rock, gravel, brick, plaster, plasterboard, tile, mortar or concrete or any
unusual quantity of combustible rubbish, similarly defined, such as materials
resulting from building construction, alteration, repair or improvement or any
combination of such noncombustible and such combustible rubbish.

	4.	Salvage shall mean any item of refuse designated by the Board and approved
by the Council as having sufficient value to warrant the sale thereof.

	5.	Container shall mean any receptacle with a capacity of 45 gallons or less
used or intended to be used for storing either rubbish, garbage or refuse for
collection.  (Amended by Ord. No. 161,912, Eff. 2/26/87.)

	6.	Hotel shall mean a residential building designed or used for or containing
six or more guest rooms or suites of rooms, but not including any institution in
which human beings are housed or detained under legal restraint.

	7.	Motel shall mean a group of attached or detached buildings containing
individual sleeping or living units, designed for or used temporarily by
automobile tourists or transients, with garage attached or parking space
conveniently located to each unit, commonly referred to as auto courts, motels,
motor lodges, tourist courts and similar designations.

	8.	Tourist Camp shall mean any place, area or tract of land upon which are
located two or more cabins, trailer coaches, automobile house trailers,
automobiles used for sleeping purposes, or other camping outfits commonly
referred to as tourist camp, trailer park, and similar designations.

	9.	Solid Waste Transfer/Processing Station shall mean a site where refuse
generated off the site is deposited and processed for salvageable materials or
energy production, and from which non-salvageable materials and non-marketable
residues are removed to a sanitary landfill or other legal disposal facility.
(Amended by Ord. No. 157,681, Eff. 6/13/83.)

	10.	Public Sanitary Landfill shall mean a public site for the disposal of solid
waste utilizing principles of engineering to protect the public health, safety
and welfare by spreading and compacting such waste to the smallest practical
volume and applying cover material over all exposed waste at specific designated
intervals. (Added by Ord. No. 157,681, Eff. 6/13/83.)

	11.	Hazardous waste shall mean any waste material or mixture of wastes which is
toxic, corrosive, flammable, an irritant, a strong sensitizer or which generates
pressure through decomposition, heat, or other means, if such a waste or mixture
of wastes may cause substantial injury, serious illness or harm to humans,
domestic livestock or wild life. (Added by Ord. No. 161,912, Eff. 2/26/87.)

	12.	Bin shall mean any metal receptacle primarily used for the storage of trash
and refuse with a capacity of one to eight cubic yards. Said receptacle is
generally used by multiple dwelling units and small businesses. (Added by Ord.
No. 161,912, Eff. 2/26/87.)

	13.	Dumpster shall mean any metal receptacle primarily used for the storage of
debris with a capacity of 9 to 50 cubic yards. Said receptacle is generally used
by contractors and large commercial establishments. (Added by Ord. No. 161,912,
Eff. 2/26/87.)
