                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

REFUSE SERVICE – REFUSE COLLECTION. (§ 66.00.1)

  REFUSE SERVICE – REFUSE COLLECTION.	(a)	Subject to the availability of
funds therefor, it is the policy of the City of Los Angeles to provide the
following: (Amended by Ord. No. 143,146, Eff. 4/27/72.)	1.	The collection of
household refuse, including metals, combined in one or more containers by a
single pickup except when more than one pickup is required by the Board of
Public Works and approved by Council resolution, on a regularly scheduled basis,
but not to provide for the collection of commercial garbage, commercial refuse,
food plant waste, or building material rubbish. (Amended by Ord. No. 146,705,
Eff. 12/9/74. )	2.	The collection of dead animals on call as the need occurs,
including such removal from commercial establishments only when death of such
animal or fowl is from natural causes or accidental, or through intentional
destruction for humane reasons to prevent suffering on the part of the animal or
fowl from sickness or in jury; provided that the animal or fowl is not killed as
a result of the regular routine operation of any commercial enterprise, thereby
intentionally creating the carcasses and provided further that any collection of
dead animals shall not include any dead animals from any pet hospital, humane
society, kennel, stable, veterinary establishment or any commercial, industrial
education, research medical or other facility that deal with or uses animals in
connection with its operation or the collection or pickup of dead horses from
private property. (Amended by Ord. No. 158,075, Eff. 8/22/83.)	(b)	It is the
policy of the City of Los Angeles to dispose of refuse collected by the City,
including metals, in land reclamation sites owned and operated or otherwise
controlled by the City or in City-owned incinerators when economically feasible,
or by contractual arrangement where appropriate. Contractual arrangements
involving consideration in excess of $5,000 shall be approved by the Council by
ordinance or resolution, except in the case of an emergency as determined by the
Director of the Bureau of Sanitation. (Amended by Ord. No. 127,743, Eff.
7/24/64.)	(c)	(Amended by Ord. No. 118,900, Eff. 6/3/61.) Incinerators and land
reclamation sites operated by the City shall be available for public use subject
to the following conditions:	1.	That the Board, after fully considering all the
facts, determines that there exists at a particular incinerator or land
reclamation site a capacity for refuse disposal in excess of that needed by the
City;	2.	That the Board, after considering the size and capacity of a land
reclamation site, the location in which it is situated, the nature and condition
of the roads giving access thereto, and other and similar considerations,
determines, subject to the approval by the Council, that the use for public
dumping purposes of a particular land reclamation site is in the public
interest;	3.	That the Board, subject to approval by the Council, shall fix
charges for public use of incinerators and land reclamation sites operated by
the City in such amounts as are sufficient to ensure that each use will bear a
proportionate share of the maintenance amortization, operation, handling and
other costs. The Council may by resolution, either upon its own motion or upon
recommendation of the Board, increase or decrease charges in order to meet
changing cost conditions.	(d)	Land reclamation sites owned by the City shall be
devoted upon completion of reclamation to such use as the Council shall
determine. (Amended by Ord. No. 118,900, Eff. 6/3/61.)	(e)	The Board of Public
Works shall adopt rules and regulations, not inconsistent with this article, to
effectuate the purposes and intent of this section and the further provisions of
this article. Any such rule or regulation pertaining to refuse collection shall
be approved by the Council. (Amended by Ord. No. 118,900, Eff. 6/3/61.)	(f)	The
Board of Public Works, subject to the approval of the Council in each instance
by resolution, may from time to time institute and conduct one or more pilot
programs within an area or areas of the City designated by the Board for the
separate collection and disposal of household refuse and salvage on a regularly
scheduled basis, for the purpose of studying costs to the City and other factors
of such program or programs compared with the policies set forth in Subsection
(a) of this section. (Amended by Ord. 146,705, Eff. 12/9/74.)	(g)	It is the
policy of the City to collect from the Los Angeles Unified School District’s
facilities and schools such recyclable materials as designated by the Board of
Public Works; provided any such facility or school is located on an existing
curbside recycling truck route and the service is to be provided at no cost to
the Los Angeles Unified School District.  (Added by Ord. No. 168,661, Eff.
4/29/93.)
