                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEPOSITING NONCOMBUSTIBLE RUBBISH. (§ 66.25)

  DEPOSITING NONCOMBUSTIBLE RUBBISH.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 181,201, Eff. 7/2/10.)	(a)	No person shall deposit or
cause to be deposited any combustible or noncombustible rubbish or any refuse of
any kind whatsoever upon or in any street, or upon any private premises in this
City, or in the Los Angeles River, or in the bed thereof.  Noncombustible
rubbish may be deposited upon any low ground after the person proposing so to
deposit upon same shall have obtained a written permit therefor from the Board
and from the owner of the premises upon which it is proposed to deposit such
noncombustible rubbish.  Any permit granted pursuant to the provisions of this
section may be revoked by the Board at any time without notice, and upon such
revocation all rights thereunder shall immediately cease.	(b)	Any person whose
identifying information is found in or who is otherwise responsible for the
deposit of rubbish or any refuse of any kind whatsoever, upon or in any street,
shall be responsible for depositing it on the public right-of-way and shall be
subject to administrative penalties as defined in Subsection (c).	(c)	The first
violation of Subsection (b) in a calendar year is subject to warning or an
administrative monetary penalty not to exceed $500.00.  Subsequent violations
in the same calendar year will result in a second penalty not to exceed $750.00
for the second violation after receiving the initial $500.00 penalty.  The
penalty for the third administrative violation in a calendar year is $1000.00. 
More than three administrative fines in one calendar year shall result in the
violation being charged as a misdemeanor in Superior Court and subject to all
penalties applicable to criminal violations.  The Bureau of Street Services is
authorized to assess a processing fee established by the Board of Public Works
for all citations with an administrative monetary penalty.  All noncriminal
enforcement actions are subject to the administrative hearing process as
mandated in the California Government Code Section 53069.
