                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

AB 939 COMPLIANCE FEES. (§ 66.32.2)

  AB 939 COMPLIANCE FEES.
	(Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 181,519, Eff. 2/12/11, Oper.
1/1/11.)	(a)	Solid Waste Haulers required to obtain an AB 939 Compliance Permit
must pay a fee equal to ten percent (10%) of their annual Gross Receipts. 
Funds from such fees shall be deposited into the Citywide Recycling Trust Fund
established at Section 5.497 of the Los Angeles Administrative Code.	(b)	Fees
imposed pursuant to the provisions of Subsection (a) of this Section are payable
quarterly, and payment is due on or before the thirtieth (30th) day following
the end of the calendar quarter in which Gross Receipts are generated.  Fees
not paid on or before the thirtieth day following the end of the calendar
quarter shall be deemed delinquent, and an additional charge equal to two and
one-half percent (2.5%) of the fee owed shall be added to the fee, and the
additional charge shall become part of the fee owed.  An additional two and
one-half percent (2.5%) shall be added to such fees for each subsequent calendar
quarter that payment of the fee owed is not received by the City, not to exceed
a total often percent (10%).	(c)	Subsection (a) of this Section shall not apply
to Solid Waste Haulers who have obtained an AB 939 Compliance Permit and whose
annual tonnage is below one thousand (1,000) tons per year.	(d)	Gross Receipts
generated from collection or sale of Source-Separated Materials or Co-Mingled
Recyclables shall not be subject to the AB 939 Compliance Fee.	(e)	Fees imposed
pursuant to the provisions of Subsection (a) of this Section shall be owed in
addition to any taxes owed pursuant to the provisions of Los Angeles Municipal
Code Section 21.00, et seq., and in addition to any other taxes, fees or charges
owed for the same period.	(f)	The Board of Public Works shall allocate a portion
of the fees collected pursuant to the provisions of Subsection (a) of this
Section for use as incentives to increase recycling activities.  The percentage
may be adjusted annually, shall be subject to Council approval, and shall be
based on the amount of diversion reported by Solid Waste Haulers.
