                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SOLID WASTE HAULER PERMIT REQUIREMENTS. (§ 66.32.1)

  SOLID WASTE HAULER PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
	(Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 181,519, Eff. 2/12/11, Oper.
1/1/11.)	(a)	Permit Required.	(1)	Persons who collect, remove or transport Solid
Waste, including Construction and Demolition Waste, Source-Separated Materials
or Co-Mingled Recyclables, generated within the City, must obtain, in addition
to all other required permits, an AB 939 Compliance Permit from the Bureau of
Sanitation.	(2)	Persons who arrange for the removal or transportation of
Construction and Demolition Waste generated within the City, and who do not
contract or otherwise arrange with a Permittee to remove or transport such
Waste, must obtain an AB 939 Compliance Permit from the Bureau of
Sanitation.	(3)	Exceptions to Permit Requirement.  Subdivision (1) of this
Subsection does not apply to Self-Haulers who in the course of performing their
primary business function incidentally collect, remove or transport Solid Waste
(excluding Construction and Demolition Waste), Source-Separated Materials or
Co-Mingled Recyclables, generated within the City, and the total amount of all
such Wastes, Materials and Recyclables collected, removed or transported is less
than one thousand (1,000) tons per year.	(4)	Exceptions to Permit Requirement. 
Subdivision (1) of this Subsection does not apply to residence owners who
generate Construction and Demolition Waste during the course of personally
performing construction and demolition projects at their own residences and
transport such Waste in their own vehicles.	(b)	Construction and Demolition
Waste Transportation Requirements.	(1)	Every Person required to obtain an AB 939
Compliance Permit who collects, removes or transports Construction and
Demolition Waste within the City must transport the Waste for disposition as
follows:	(i)	delivery of the Construction and Demolition Waste to a Certified
Construction and Demolition Waste Processing Facility; or	(ii)	delivery of the
Construction and Demolition Waste to a facility other than a Certified
Construction and Demolition Waste Processing Facility if at least two Certified
Construction and Demolition Waste Processing Facilities refuse to accept the
Waste and provide the Person with a rejection slip.  Rejection slips must be
maintained for a minimum of three years from the date the Person received the
rejection slips.	(2)	Subdivision (1) of this Subsection shall not apply to the
collection, removal, or transportation of Source-Separated Material generated
from a project within the City and delivered to a recycling facility, or
segregated for on-site recycling.	(3)	Subdivision (1) of this Subsection shall
not apply to residence owners who generate Construction and Demolition Waste
during the course of performing construction and demolition projects at their
own residences and transport such Waste in their own vehicles.	(c)	Reporting and
Documentation Requirements.	(1)	Every Person required to obtain an AB 939
Compliance Permit shall submit reports as required by the Bureau of Sanitation,
on forms provided by the Bureau, documenting all disposal and diversion amounts
of materials generated within the City and other information that the Bureau may
require.	(2)	Documentation.  Every Person required to obtain an AB 939
Compliance Permit must maintain documentation of all disposal and diversion
amounts of materials generated within the City and other documents that the
Bureau may require.  Such documentation includes, but is not limited to,
invoices, weight tickets, rejection slips (where issued), weight tickets from a
destination other than a Certified Construction and Demolition Waste Processing
Facility (where issued), and documents identifying construction and demolition
project location, quantity of Construction and Demolition Waste, quantity of
Solid Waste, quantity of Source-Separated Material and Co-Mingled Recyclables,
and destination of each load of material.  The documentation required to be
maintained by this Subdivision must be kept for at least three years from the
date of document creation.	(d)	Bins.  Bins owned by Solid Waste Haulers that
are used to collect, remove or transport Solid Waste, Construction and
Demolition Waste, Co-Mingled Recyclables or Source-Separated Material generated
within the City must be clearly marked with the Solid Waste Hauler’s name and
phone number.
