                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

VIOLATIONS, PENALTIES, AND PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION. (§ 66.32.3)

  VIOLATIONS, PENALTIES, AND PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
	(Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 181,519, Eff. 2/12/11, Oper.
1/1/11.)	(a)	Violations for Collecting, Removing or Transporting Solid Waste
without a Valid AB 939 Compliance Permit.  Any Person who willfully violates
any requirement of Subsection (a) of Section 66.32.1 shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.  The penalty upon conviction shall not be more than a fine of
$1,000 or imprisonment in the county jail, not exceeding six months, or both
fine and imprisonment.  Violations are deemed to be continuing violations, and
each day that a violation continues is deemed to be a new and separate
offense.	(b)	Administrative Penalties for Unlawful Disposition of Construction
and Demolition Waste.  Any Person who fails to deliver Construction and
Demolition Waste to a Certified Construction and Demolition Waste Processing
Facility as required in Subsection (b) of Section 66.32.1 shall pay the
following Administrative Penalties: $1,000 for the first violation; $2,000 for
the second violation that occurs within six months of a first violation; $5,000
for a third violation that occurs within six months of a second violation; and
$5,000 for each violation that occurs after imposition of a $5,000 penalty. 
The Bureau of Sanitation shall provide written notice of penalties assessed
pursuant to the provisions of this Subsection by issuance of a Notice of Penalty
Assessment.  Delivery of each and every load of Construction and Demolition
Waste in violation of the provisions of Subsection (b) of Section 66.32.1 shall
constitute a separate violation of the Subsection.	(c)	Permit Suspension and
Revocation.  The City reserves the right to suspend or revoke an AB 939
Compliance Permit upon 30 days notice by issuance of a Notice of Suspension or
Notice of Revocation, if the Permittee fails to comply with any of the terms and
conditions specified in the Permit or in this Code, including but not limited to
waste transportation requirements imposed pursuant to the provisions of
Subsection (b) of Section 66.32.1, reporting and documentation requirements
imposed pursuant to the provisions of Subsection (c) of Section 66.32.1, and
payment of fees imposed pursuant to the provisions of Section 66.32.2. 
Violations of other Los Angeles Municipal Code sections or other laws may
constitute just cause for suspension or revocation of an AB 939 Compliance
Permit.	(d)	Appeals of Notice of Penalty Assessment, Notice of Suspension and
Notice of Revocation.	(1)	Right to Appeal.  Where a Person is issued a Notice
of Penalty Assessment, Notice of Suspension or Notice of Revocation pursuant to
the provisions of Subsections (b) or (c) of this Section, and the Person
believes that the Notice was issued in error or that the penalty assessed was
excessive or in error, the Person may appeal by filing, within thirty (30) days
of when the Bureau of Sanitation mailed the Notice of Penalty Assessment, Notice
of Suspension or Notice of Revocation, a written request for a hearing before
the Board.  If the Board does not receive the written request for a hearing
within thirty (30) days of when the Bureau of Sanitation mailed the Notice of
Penalty Assessment, Notice of Suspension or Notice of Revocation, the penalty
assessment, suspension, or revocation, whichever is applicable, shall be deemed
final and no further administrative relief can be obtained.	(2)	If an Appellant
timely files a written request for a hearing pursuant to the provisions of
Subdivision (1) of this Subsection, the penalty assessment, suspension or
revocation that is the subject of the request shall be stayed pending a hearing
before the Board.	(3)	After receipt of a written request for a hearing filed
pursuant to and in compliance with the provisions of Subdivision (1) of this
Subsection, the Board will set the matter on one of its regular agendas as soon
thereafter the Board deems practical.  At the Board hearing, the Board shall
hear the testimony of the Appellant, Bureau of Sanitation staff, and other
testimony it deems relevant.  Appellant shall have the burden of proof, and
shall present substantial evidence on the Appellant’s behalf.  Upon
conclusion of the hearing, the Board shall issue a verbal or written decision. 
The Board may affirm the Notice of Suspension or Notice of Revocation or rescind
it, and may affirm the penalty assessment, decrease it, or cancel it.  If the
Board affirms a Notice of Suspension or Notice of Revocation, the suspension or
revocation shall be effective on the date of the Board’s decision, unless the
Board decides otherwise, if the Board affirms a penalty assessment, the amount
affirmed shall be owed thirty (30) days after issuance of the Board’s
decision, unless the Board decides otherwise. Once the Board issues a decision,
the matter is final and no further administrative relief is provided by the
City.	(e)	Authority to Take Possession of Permit.  The Director of the Bureau
of Sanitation, or an authorized representative, may take possession of any AB
939 Compliance Permit, or other document issued pursuant to the provisions of
Section 66.32 through 66.32.2, which is expired or is suspended, revoked, or
otherwise invalid.  Any decal approved by the Board that is not attached to the
vehicle for which it was issued may be seized by the Director of the Bureau of
Sanitation or an authorized representative.
