                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS. (§ 66.32)

  PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 181,519, Eff. 2/12/11, Oper. 1/1/11.)	In order to meet the
diversion goals of AB 939 and the City of Los Angeles which will total 70
percent (70%) by the year 2013, solid waste haulers, contractors and recyclers
shall register with the City to obtain a permit.  Among the various purposes of
this program is the goal of maintaining an open and competitive market for all
companies providing solid waste and disposal services in the City, and to
mandate the recycling of construction and demolition waste.  As used in this
Section and in Sections 66.32.1 through 66.32.5, the following terms shall have
the meanings set forth below:	1.	AB 939 shall mean the State of California’s
Integrated Waste Management Act of 1989, as may be amended from time to time,
and as set forth in California Public Resources Code Sections 40050, et seq.,
and implementing regulations of the Department of Resources Recycling and
Recovery (CalRecycle).	2.	AB 939 Compliance Permit shall mean a permit issued
pursuant to the provisions of Subsection (a) of Section 66.32.1.	3.	Appellant
shall mean a Person who files a written request for a hearing pursuant to the
provisions of Subdivision (1) of Subsection (d) of Section 66.32.3.	4.	Board
shall mean the City of Los Angeles Board of Public Works.	5.	Certified
Construction and Demolition Waste Processing Facility shall mean a waste
processing facility, possessing valid and current certification from the City of
Los Angeles, that accepts loads of Construction and Demolition Waste for the
purpose of recovering reusable and recyclable materials and disposing of
non-recyclable residual materials.	6.	City shall mean the City of Los
Angeles.	7.	Co-Mingled Recyclables shall mean material that has been separated
or kept separate from the solid waste stream, at the point of generation, for
the purpose of additional sorting or processing the material for recycling or
reuse in order to return the material to the economic mainstream in the form of
raw material for new, reused, or reconstituted products which meet the quality
standards necessary to be used in the marketplace. Co-Mingled recyclables shall
not consist of Construction and Demolition Waste.	8.	Contractor shall mean any
Person who enters into a contract for any construction or demolition project
that requires a permit from the Department of Building and
Safety.	9.	Construction and Demolition Waste shall mean solid waste that results
directly from construction, remodeling, repair, demolition, or deconstruction of
buildings and other structures, does not contain hazardous waste (as defined in
California Code of Regulations, Title 22, Section 66621.3, et seq.), and
contains no more than one percent (1%) putrescible wastes by volume, calculated
on a monthly basis.  Construction and Demolition Waste includes, but is not
limited to, asphalt, concrete, Portland cement, brick, lumber, wallboard,
roofing material, ceramic tile, pipe, glass, carpet or associated
packing.	10.	Gross Receipts shall mean those receipts defined as Gross Receipts
in Los Angeles Municipal Code Section 21.00 (a) generated by the collection of
Solid Waste including, but not limited to, service, container rental, disposal
and processing charges.  For purposes of this Section and Sections 66.32.1
through 66.32.5, Gross Receipts shall not be applicable to receipts generated by
the collection and sale of Source-Separated Materials or Co-Mingled
Recyclables.	11.	Permittee shall mean a Person issued an AB 939 Compliance
Permit pursuant to the provisions of Subsection (a) of Section
66.32.1.	12.	Person shall mean natural person, business, contractor, joint
venture, joint stock company, firm, partnership, association, club, company,
corporation, business trust, or organization, or the manager, employer, agent,
servant, officer, or employee of any of them.  Person shall not mean the City
of Los Angeles, or any of its constituent entities, departments, boards,
employees or officers.	13.	Self-Hauler shall mean a Person who is not primarily
engaged in the business of collection, removal or transportation of Solid Waste
but in the course of performing the Person’s primary business function
incidentally transports Solid Waste.  Examples of Self-Haulers include, but are
not limited to, gardeners, landscapes, and household cleanup service firms.  If
the incidental collection, removal or transportation of Solid Waste includes
Construction and Demolition Waste, however, the Person is not a Self-Hauler but
instead is a Solid Waste Hauler subject to all of the requirements applicable to
Solid Waste Haulers.	14.	Solid Waste shall mean waste that the Department of
Resources Recycling and Recovery (CalRecycle) has deemed acceptable for disposal
at a Class III Landfill, including Construction and Demolition Waste, and shall
not include Source-Separated Material or Co-Mingled Recyclables.	15.	Solid Waste
Hauler shall mean any Person engaged in the business of providing or responsible
for the collection, removal or transportation of Solid Waste, Construction and
Demolition Waste, Source-Separated Materials, or Co-Mingled Recyclables
generated within the City.	16.	Source-Separated Material shall mean material
that has been separated or kept separate from the solid waste stream at the
point of generation and has not been commingled with other solid waste or
recyclable materials.  To qualify as Source-Separated Material, each type of
material must be transferred in a separate container to a recycling center. 
Source-Separated Material includes, but is not limited to, Construction and
Demolition Waste such as clean wood, clean concrete or metals.
