                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ADDITIONAL POWERS AND DUTIES. (§ 66.44)

  ADDITIONAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,293, Eff. 6/30/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)	(a)	The Director of
Finance shall have the power and duty, and is hereby directed, to enforce all of
the provisions of this article, and may make such rules and regulations as are
consistent with the provisions of this article as may be necessary or desirable
to aid in the administration and enforcement of the provisions of this
article.	(b)	For the purpose of determining the number of dwelling units
contained in any building the Bureau of Sanitation may estimate the number of
dwelling units contained in said building, after full consideration of all
information within his or her knowledge.	(c)	The Director of Finance, on behalf
of and in the name of the City of Los Angeles, may enter into a written
agreement, in a form approved by the City Attorney, with any customer indebted
to the City pursuant to the terms of this article, obligating said customer to
pay such indebtedness to the Director of Finance in monthly or more frequent
installments, but in no event over a period greater than one year. In any such
agreement such customer shall acknowledge the obligation owed to the City and
his or her indebtedness thereon, shall agree that in the event of his or her
failure to make timely payment of any installment thereof that the whole amount
unpaid may be determined by the Director of Finance to be immediately due and
payable, and shall agree to pay all costs and reasonable attorney fees incurred
by or on behalf of the City in the collection thereof or for any legal
proceeding commenced for that purpose.	(d)	Whenever the amount of charges and
penalty imposed under this article, or either of them, is determined by the
Department of Water and Power or by the Director of Finance to have been
overpaid, paid more than once, or to have been erroneously collected or received
by the City in whole or in part, the Department of Water and Power or the
Director of Finance, as the case may be, may provide for correction thereof
either by refund or by credit on future bills in its or his or her discretion.
Any claim for such a refund or credit shall be filed with the Director of
Finance by the person paying the alleged overpayment within six months of such
payment.	(e)	Where there is a dispute with respect to the charges or penalty
imposed under this article, or both, the Director of Finance, with the written
approval of the City Attorney and subject to the provisions of the Charter of
the City of Los Angeles, may compromise the City’s claim for said charges or
penalty, or both, where the portion of the claim proposed to be released is less
than $5,000.00; and, with the approval of the City Attorney and the City
Council, may compromise such a claim where the portion proposed to be released
is $5,000.00 or more.
