                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

CHARGE IMPOSED. (§ 66.41)

  CHARGE IMPOSED.	(a)	For all costs related to the collection, transfer,
recycling, recovery of waste resources and/or disposal of solid waste collected
by the City of Los Angeles including, but not limited to:  salaries, direct and
indirect overhead, equipment, ancillary equipment, refuse and recycling
containers and vehicles, landfill costs, whether for disposal or for resource
recovery facilities or refuse to energy and fuel facilities or closure of City
owned facilities, development, acquisition, construction, operation and
maintenance of equipment, alternative fuel infrastructure, buildings or
facilities used in the collection, recycling, recovery of waste resources and/or
disposal of solid waste or storage of solid waste related equipment, transfer
facilities, resource recovery facilities or transfer equipment, maintenance of
transfer facilities or equipment, or for facilities and equipment used in the
recovery of waste resources in the form of energy, alternative fuels or
manufacturing feedstocks, there is hereby imposed for all related costs of the
services provided in the collection, the availability of collection, transfer,
recycling, the availability of recycling, the recovery of waste resources,
disposal and the availability of disposal of solid waste the following charges
for the dwelling classifications listed:  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,478, Eff.
6/4/06.)	(1)	Single-Family Dwelling.  $26.00 per month, or any fraction of a
month for each single dwelling unit, effective through August 31, 2008; $36.32
per month, effective September 1, 2008, until further amended by the City
Council.  (Amended by Ord. No. 180,116, Eff. 9/8/08.)	(2)	Multiple-Family
Dwelling.  $17.16 per month, or any fraction of a month for each dwelling unit
within a multiple-family dwelling from which refuse is collected by the City,
effective through August 31, 2008; $24.33 per month, effective September 1,
2008, until further amended by the City Council.  No charge shall be imposed on
any multiple-family dwelling where the City does not collect refuse.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 180,116, Eff. 9/8/08.)	(b)	Reductions and Exemptions.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 181,410, Eff. 12/29/10.)	(1)	An exemption from the charge imposed
pursuant to Subsection (a) of this Section shall be provided for single family
dwellings as to which City collection service cannot be provided because of
physical limitations restricting access by City collection vehicles.	(2)	The
charge imposed pursuant to Subsection (a) of this Section shall be reduced by
sixty-five (65) percent as of the effective date of this ordinance, and the
charge shall be reduced by thirty (30) percent as of July 1, 2011, for any
senior citizen or disabled customer who applies for a reduction and would
qualify for a tax exemption pursuant to the provisions of Section 21.1.12 of
this Code.  A customer who applies for and receives the reduction shall be
entitled to the reduction so long as the customer would qualify for a tax
exemption pursuant to the provisions of Section 21.1.12 of this Code.  The
Office of Finance, with the assistance of the Bureau of Sanitation, shall every
two years verify the continued eligibility of each customer granted a reduction
pursuant to the provisions of this Subdivision, and if the Office of Finance
determines that a customer is no longer eligible, or has failed to provide
evidence of eligibility as requested by the Office of Finance, then the customer
shall be charged the full amount of the charge imposed pursuant to Subsection
(a) of this Section on the first bill sent to the customer following the Office
of Finance determination.  Customers who are charged the full amount of the
charge imposed pursuant to Subsection (a) of this Section because of an Office
of Finance determination that they are no longer eligible, or that they failed
to provide evidence of eligibility, may submit a new application for a reduction
pursuant to the provisions of Subdivision (4) of this Subsection. 	(3)	No more
than 51,400 customers may receive a reduction pursuant to the provisions of
Subdivision (2) of this Subsection at any one time.  (Amended by Ord. No.
182,230, Eff. 9/30/12.)	(4)	Applications for a reduction authorized pursuant to
the provisions of Subdivision (2) of this Subsection shall be made upon forms
supplied by the Office of Finance, who, with the assistance of the Bureau of
Sanitation, shall review all applications and notify applicants in writing if it
is determined that the applicants are not entitled to a reduction.  The Office
of Finance and the Bureau of Sanitation shall review the reduction percentage
amount every five years and report to the City Council with recommendations as
to the appropriate percentage.	(c)	(Added by Ord. No. 179,070, Eff. 9/16/07.) 
For all costs related to the collection, transfer, recycling, and/or disposal of
bulky items collected from multi-family apartment dwellings by the City of Los
Angeles including, but not limited to, salaries, direct and indirect overhead,
equipment and debt, there is hereby imposed a Multi-Family Bulky Item Fee (BIF)
for the dwelling classifications listed:	(1)	Owners of Separately Metered
Apartment Buildings.  $0.64 per month or any fraction of a month for each
apartment unit, effective October 1, 2007.	(2)	Owners of Master-Metered
Apartment Buildings.  $1.11 per month or any fraction of a month for each
apartment unit, effective October 1, 2007.	(3)	Apartment Tenants (Residents). 
$0.64 per month or any fraction of a month for each apartment tenant, effective
October 1, 2007.	(4)	Low Income Discount, Apartment Tenants (Residents).  $0.44
per month or any fraction of a month for certain Low Income Apartment Tenants. 
Apartment Tenants (Residents) qualifying for DWP Low Income Discounts will be
charged the discounted rate, effective October 1, 2007.	(d)	Exemption.  An
exemption from the BIF imposed pursuant to the provisions of Subsection (c) of
this Section shall be provided for any senior citizen or disabled customer who
would qualify for a tax exemption pursuant to the provisions of Section 21.1.12
of this Code.  Applications for an exemption shall be made upon forms supplied
by the Office of Finance, who, with the assistance of the Bureau of Sanitation,
shall review all applications and notify applicants in writing of their
entitlement to an exemption.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,410, Eff.
12/29/10.)	(e)	(Added by Ord. No. 179,070, Eff. 9/16/07.)  Certain Apartment
Complexes may qualify for full or partial exemptions to the fee.  The
Department of Public Works may grant exemptions or discounts under the following
conditions:	(1)	There are at least four staff members on site dedicated to trash
disposal.	(2)	The complex is a self-contained community, located on private
streets, with no direct access by tenants to public property.	(3)	There is
private collection of bulky items at least twice per week.	(4)	There is tenant
outreach informing residents of the proper way to dispose of bulky
items.	(5)	There are no recorded bulky item service requests made in or around
the complex, adjacent alleys, sidewalks or streets.	(6)	Extraordinary
circumstances resulting in a substantial number of vacancies for an extended
period of time.	(f)	(Added by Ord. No. 179,070, Eff. 9/16/07.)  The following
multi-family apartment complexes are exempt from payment of the Multi-Family
BIF:	(1)	Park La Brea (4,253 units).	(2)	Oakwood Toluca Hills (1,151 units).
