                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEFINITIONS. (§ 67.01)

  DEFINITIONS.
	(Added by Ord. No. 78,537, Eff. 11/8/37.)	For the purpose of this article
certain terms used herein are defined as follows:	(a)	The term “outdoor
advertising structure” as used in this article is hereby defined to be any
structure or device erected upon the surface of the ground for outdoor
advertising purposes, or to attract the attention of the public and visible from
any public street, alley or other public place, as distinguished from any sign
attached to or placed on a building, upon which any poster, bill, printing,
painting, device or other advertisement of any kind whatsoever may be placed,
posted, painted, fastened or affixed, or used in connection with, including
so-called electric and/or cutout signs; provided, however, that the same shall
not be deemed to include any board, sign or surface used exclusively to display
official notices issued by any court or public officer in performance of a
public duty or a private person in giving a legal notice; nor shall the same
include any sign not exceeding twenty (20) square feet in area used exclusively
to advertise the sale or lease of the property on which the sign is placed or to
designate the name of the owner or occupant of the premises or to identify the
premises such as physicians’, or surgeons’ name signs, apartment house
signs, post sign or accessory sign.	(b)	The term “accessory sign” as used in
this article is hereby defined to be any advertising sign or sign device erected
or placed upon the surface of the ground, which has no mechanical or moving
parts or with which no electricity or other sources of illumination or power are
attached to or made a part thereof, and which carries any advertisement strictly
incidental and subordinate to a lawful use of the premises on which it is
located, including signs or sign devices indicating the business transacted or
services rendered or goods sold or produced on the premises or an occupant
thereof. Provided, however, that said accessory sign shall not have a surface
area greater than twenty (20) square feet on any one side thereof and not more
than two sides of said accessory sign shall be used for advertising purposes.
The top of said accessory sign shall not exceed six (6) feet six (6) inches
above the surface of the ground upon which it is erected or placed. Said
accessory sign shall not be erected, constructed or placed within a distance of
less than fifteen (15) feet of any other accessory sign.	(c)	The term “post
sign” as used in this article is hereby defined to be any sign erected or
affixed in a rigid manner to any pole or post, and which carries any
advertisement strictly incidental and subordinate to a lawful use of the
premises on which it is located, including signs or sign devices indicating the
business transacted, services rendered or goods sold or produced on the premises
or an occupant thereof. (Amended by Ord. No. 145,635, Eff. 4/8/74.)	Provided,
however, that said post sign shall not have a surface area greater than two
hundred (200) square feet on any one side thereof and not more than four hundred
(400) square feet on or in the aggregate of all sides of said post sign. The
bottom of said post sign or surface area thereof shall not be less than ten (10)
feet above the sidewalk or above the surface of the ground upon which it is
erected. The post supporting said post sign shall have no horizontal dimension
greater than twenty-four (24) inches. Said post sign shall not be, erected,
constructed or placed within a distance of less than fifteen (15) feet of any
other post sign. (Amended by Ord. No. 145,635, Eff. 4/8/74.)	(d)	The term
“accessory sign” or “post sign” as herein defined shall not be deemed to
include any sign advertising the trade name, merchandise or service of any
person, firm or corporation who pays a consideration for the privilege of
placing, maintaining or using any portion of said sign to the owner or occupant
of the premises upon which said sign is erected or placed.	(e)	The term
“advertising statuary” as used in this article is hereby defined to mean any
imitation, representation or similitude of any person or thing which is
sculptured, moulded, modeled or cast in any solid or plastic substance, material
or fabric, or any balloon or other inflatable device, which, for advertising
purposes, is erected upon or attached to the surface of the ground or any
vehicle which is parked upon a public street, alley or highway, or upon private
property. (Amended by Ord. No. 114,749, Eff. 11/28/59.)	(f)	The term
“street” as used in this article is hereby defined to include all public
thoroughfares, excepting alleys.
