                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PERMITS – DENIAL – REVOCATION. (§ 68.04)

  PERMITS – DENIAL – REVOCATION.	(a)	The application shall be denied if the
Board shall find that the maintenance of the bench would tend to obstruct
passage along any public way or create a hazard or would otherwise be
detrimental to the public safety, welfare or convenience.	(b)	Any permit may be
revoked, or renewal thereof denied, for any violation of any of the provisions
of this section, for any fraud or misrepresentation in the application, for any
reason which would have been ground for denial of the application, or when the
Board determines that the bench to be installed, installed or maintained under
such permit is to be located or is so located that it is not compatible with
another existing or proposed use of the public property along the public way or
otherwise not in the best interest of the City.  (Amended by Ord. No. 152,457,
Eff. 7/2/79.)	(c)	If the owner, tenant or person in lawful possession or control
of the property abutting upon the street at the place where the bench is to be
located shall object to the maintenance of the bench, and gives written notice
thereof to the Board at any time before or within 90 days from the date the
permit is issued, the permit shall be denied or revoked. If such written notice
is received by the Board after 90 days from the date of the permit, the permit
shall not be revoked, but renewal thereof shall be denied on the next renewal
date.	(d)	The application shall be canceled and denied if the applicant fails to
deposit the annual fee and accept the permit within 10 days after notice of the
approval of the application by the Board.	(e)	Any permit issued under this
section shall be cancelled and revoked if the permittee fails to install the
bench within 60 days after the date of the issuance of the permit.	(f)	The
application shall be canceled and denied, or the permit revoked, as the case may
be, if 60% of the property owners and/or tenants living or having their place of
business within 200 feet of the location of said bench or benches protest the
same.
