                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEFINITIONS. (§ 69.03)

  DEFINITIONS.	Auxiliary:  Shall mean any vessel having both sails and either
an inboard or outboard motor and which may be propelled by its sails or by its
motor, or both.	City:  Shall mean the City of Los Angeles, County of Los
Angeles, State of California.	County:  Shall mean the County of Los Angeles,
State of California.	Department:  Shall mean the Department of Small Craft
Harbors, County of Los Angeles.	Director: Shall mean the Director of the
Department of Small Craft Harbors.	Emergency:  Shall mean a state of proximate
danger to life or property in which time is of the essence.	Harbormaster: Shall
mean the Chief Officer of the Harbor Patrol, County of Los Angeles, or member of
the Harbor Patrol that he may designate to act in his stead in his
absence.	Harbor Patrol:  Shall mean the organization comprising all members
regularly employed by the Los Angeles County as Harbor Patrolmen or Harbor
Patrol officers.	Harbor Patrolmen: Shall mean a harbor policeman as referred to
in Section 663.5 of the California Harbors and Navigation Code.	Moor:  Shall
mean to secure a vessel other than by anchoring.	Mooring:  Shall mean (1) a
place where vessels are secured; (2) the equipment used to secure a vessel; and
(3) the process of securing a vessel other than by anchoring.	Mooring Buoy: 
Shall mean a buoy secured to the bottom by anchors and provided with attachments
to which a vessel may be secured by use of its anchor chain or mooring
lines.	Regulatory Marker:  Shall mean any of the waterway markers defined as
“regulatory markers” in the California Administrative Code, Title 14,
Article 6, commencing with Section 7000.	State:  Shall mean the State of
California.	Stray Vessel:  Shall mean (1) an abandoned vessel; (2) a vessel the
owner of which is unknown; (3) a vessel moored without permission; or (4) a
vessel underway without a competent person in command.	To Anchor:  Shall mean
to secure a vessel to the bottom within a body of water by dropping an anchor or
anchors.	Underway:  Shall mean the condition of a vessel not at anchor; without
moorings; and not made fast to the shore nor aground.	Vessel:  Shall mean every
description of water craft, other than seaplane on the water, used or capable of
being used as a means of transportation on the water.	Waterway:  Shall mean any
water area providing access for vessels from one place to another, principally a
water area that is navigable which may provide or is used as a regular route for
water traffic, that is owned, managed, or controlled by the County or under the
jurisdiction of the County, either in incorporated or unincorporated
territory.	Waterway Marker:  Shall mean any State aid to navigation or
regulatory marker as defined in California Administrative Code, Title 14,
Article 6, commencing with Section 7000.
