                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

MONETARY PENALTIES FOR TAXICAB OPERATORS. (§ 71.02.2)

  MONETARY PENALTIES FOR TAXICAB OPERATORS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 170,068, Eff. 11/18/94.)	(a)	The Board may levy monetary
penalties in addition to or in lieu of suspension of franchise or operating
permit pursuant to 71.02 above.  Monetary penalties may be levied on a per
violation, a per day or an accumulated penalty point basis and may escalate on a
first, second, or third violation basis.  Deficiencies in operations which
endanger the public health, welfare, and/or safety shall receive the maximum
penalties.	(b)	The Board shall adopt by resolution a schedule of monetary
penalties, a procedure for assessing monetary penalties or penalty points for
specific driver and/or operator violations, and an appeal procedure.  Monetary
penalties for taxicab operators shall be no more than $1,000 for each penalty
point over an established limit, or for each day, as appropriate, up to a
maximum of $25,000 in monetary penalties for penalty points accumulated in a
calendar quarter; except penalties assessed on a per day basis for failure to
correct operator deficiencies shall accumulate without limit for each day that
the violation exists.  Any single penalty assessment that exceeds $30,000 is
subject to appeal to the City Council.	(c)	Payment of a monetary penalty or the
serving of a suspension shall constitute a waiver of the right to further appeal
of any monetary penalty or suspension to the City Council or Superior
Court.	(d)	Judicial review of an action by the Board levying such monetary
penalty or of an action of the City Council in denying an appeal, as provided
for herein, shall be available only if a petition for a writ of mandate is filed
in the Superior Court not later than the 90th day following the date upon which
the decision of the Board or City Council becomes final, which shall be the
expiration of the period during which reconsideration can be sought, provided
that if reconsideration is sought the decision is final for the purposes of this
section on the date that reconsideration is rejected.	(e)	The total monetary
penalty payment is due by the date established by the Board or 30 days after the
end of the month in which payment has accrued, whichever comes first.  The
payment is delinquent if not paid on or before the due date.	(f)	A penalty of
10% of the amount of the payment shall be assessed on any payment which has
become delinquent.  Failure to pay any delinquent payment on or before the last
day of the fourth month following the date on which the payment first became
delinquent will result in the assessment of a second penalty of 10% of the
amount of the payment in addition to the amount of the payment and the 10%
penalty first imposed.	(g)	In addition to the penalties imposed above, failure
to pay any payment required by ordinance and by the franchise or operating
permit will result in the assessment of interest charges at the rate of 1-1/2%
per month, or fraction thereof, on the amount of the payment, exclusive of
penalties, from the date on which the payment first became delinquent until it
is paid.
