                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

OPERATION OF VEHICLES – PERMITS OR FRANCHISES REQUIRED. (§ 71.02)

  OPERATION OF VEHICLES – PERMITS OR FRANCHISES REQUIRED.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 174,058, Eff. 8/9/01.)	(a)	No person or corporation shall
drive, operate or use, whether as owner, lessor, lessee or otherwise, any of the
vehicles defined in Section 71.00 to pick up or attempt to pick up passengers
within the limits of the City of Los Angeles, or allow or permit to be operated,
driven, or used, whether as owner, lessor, lessee, or otherwise, any of the
vehicles defined in Section 71.00 to pick up or attempt to pick up passengers
within the limits of the City of Los Angeles unless a written vehicle permit for
the operation of such specifically defined vehicles has been obtained from the
Board; provided, however, that no vehicle permit shall be required for the
operation of any vehicle under and in accordance with the terms and conditions
of a franchise granted by the City of Los Angeles.	(b)	No person or corporation
or membership organization shall drive or operate a taxicab without a franchise
granted by the City of Los Angeles.  The Board may grant a taxicab vehicle
permit to grantee or a member of grantee for each vehicle operated under a
taxicab franchise.  No taxicab shall be operated under a franchise unless the
Board has issued such a permit for each specific vehicle.  A taxicab operated
under a franchise may not continue in service if the taxicab vehicle permit is
expired, suspended, canceled or revoked. The Board may authorize the decaling of
each individual taxicab by the Department as approval for a taxicab vehicle
permit.	(c)	Every corporation, person, cooperative, or association who operates
a taxicab and who knowingly and willfully issues, publishes or affixes, or
causes or permits the issuance, publishing or affixing of any oral or written
advertisement, broadcast or holding out to the public or any portion thereof, in
any manner whatsoever, that the corporation or person is in operation as a
taxicab company or an individual taxicab without having a valid vehicle permit
and franchise granted by the City of Los Angeles is guilty of a
misdemeanor.	(d)	In no event shall any person or corporation who drives or
operates a taxicab in the City of Los Angeles publish, advertise or broadcast in
any manner, written or oral, a telephone number either by itself or connected to
a rotary or call forwarding system for taxicab service, which is the same
telephone number as that for other vehicles for hire.	(e)	No person or
corporation shall knowingly dispatch a vehicle or respond to a request for a
“taxi”, “cab” or “taxicab” for pick-up within the City of Los
Angeles unless the responding vehicle is operated pursuant to a franchise
granted by the City of Los Angeles.
