                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

REVIEW OF FEES FOR SERVICE. (§ 71.06.3)

  REVIEW OF FEES FOR SERVICE.
	(Added by Ord. No. 180,541, Eff. 3/28/09.)	The Department of Transportation
shall provide an annual review of the vehicle and driver permitting fees
designated in Section 71.06.1, subsections (a) through (s), and shall submit
recommendations for changes in these fees for special services to the Council,
as follows:	(a)	By May 1st of each odd numbered year, the Department shall
provide a comprehensive study of fees for services, and shall provide a report
and proposed draft ordinance to the Mayor and the City Council detailing any
requested changes in the fees for special services for any particular item
listed in Section 71.06.1.  The comprehensive study shall include:  1)
measurement of the average salary increase in effect for all vehicle-for-hire
staff members from the previous calendar year; 2) measurement of changes in
material, equipment and contract costs related to any and all fee-for-service
items; 3) adjustment of any changes required in the amount of personnel time
necessary to complete any fee-for-service activity; and 4) current indirect
costs for labor provided by the City’s Cost Allocation Plan.  Cost figures
shall be compared to the current baseline established for each fee. 
Recommended fee changes shall be rounded to the nearest whole dollar.  The
recommended fee changes shall be requested to take effect beginning July 1st of
the reporting year.	(b)	By May 1st of each even numbered year, the Department
shall provide a proposal for adjustment of fees for services, and shall provide
a report and proposed draft ordinance to the Mayor and the City Council
detailing any requested changes in the fees for service for any particular item
listed in Section 71.06.1.  The adjustment shall include a measurement of the
average salary increase in effect for all vehicle-for-hire staff members from
the previous calendar year.  Current indirect costs for labor derived from the
City’s Cost Allocation Plan also shall be included as part of the adjustment
and assessment report.  Cost figures shall be compared to the current baseline
established for each fee.  Recommended fee changes shall be rounded to the
nearest whole dollar.  The recommended fee changes shall be requested to take
effect beginning July 1st of the reporting year.
