                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PROCEDURES FOR DENIAL, REVOCATION, SUSPENSION OR CANCELLATION OF PERMITS BY THE
GENERAL MANAGER OR HIS AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE. (§ 71.09)

  PROCEDURES FOR DENIAL, REVOCATION, SUSPENSION OR CANCELLATION OF PERMITS BY
THE GENERAL MANAGER OR HIS AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 150,456, Eff. 12/30/77.)	(a)	Immediate suspension:  The
General Manager of the Department or his authorized representative may
immediately suspend a permit when it is determined that an emergency involving
public health or safety requires such suspension. Permittee shall be given
notice of such suspension in writing delivered to the permittee either in person
or by registered letter.	(b)	Temporary suspension:  The General Manager of the
Department or his authorized representative may temporarily suspend any permit.
Such temporary suspension shall be after the permittee has been given notice to
appear before the General Manager or his authorized representative for a hearing
on the charges. Such notice shall include the basis for the proposed charges.
The permittee shall have the right to respond either orally or in writing. If
after hearing it is determined that cause for suspension exists the permittee
may accept the suspension of the permit or fill out a prescribed form requesting
a hearing before the Board. The Board shall consider such request and the
grounds therefor and shall take appropriate actions thereon subject to the
provisions of Section 71.07.  (Amended by Ord. No. 165,491, Eff.
3/19/90.)	(c)	Permanent suspension, revocation or cancellation:  Whenever
investigation determines that cause for permanent suspension, revocation or
cancellation of a permit exists, the permittee shall be given notice to appear
before the Board for a hearing.  (Amended by Ord. No. 165,491, Eff.
3/19/90.)	(d)	Waiver of hearing:  Failure of permittee to respond to a notice
to appear for a hearing before the General Manager of the Department or his
authorized representative or before the Board is a waiver of the right to a
hearing and action may be taken without permittee being present.	(e)	(Added by
Ord. No. 165,491, Eff. 3/19/90.)  The General Manager of the Department or his
authorized representative, or any officer of the Los Angeles Police Department,
may take possession of any badge, card, permit, license or vehicle decal issued
under the provisions of this chapter, upon expiration, revocation, cancellation
or suspension thereof, or which is fictitious or which has been unlawfully or
erroneously issued. Any decal, or other taxicab or vehicle identification as
approved by the Board, which is not attached to the vehicle for which it was
issued may be seized.	Any such document or decal seized shall be delivered to
the Department.
