                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

APPLICATION FOR DRIVER AND AMBULANCE ATTENDANT PERMITS. (§ 71.06)

  APPLICATION FOR DRIVER AND AMBULANCE ATTENDANT PERMITS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,901, Eff. 5/31/01.)	Every applicant for a driver
permit or an attendant permit shall file with the Department an application upon
a form furnished by the Department, containing such information as is required
by the rules and regulations of the Board.  Any money due the Department of
Transportation by any  applicant for a driver or attendant permit including
money owed for outstanding parking tickets or other fines assessed by the
Department, must be paid, or the matter otherwise resolved to the satisfaction
of the Department, prior to the issuance of such permit.  Every application for
a driver permit or an attendant permit shall be accompanied by a non refundable
processing fee in the amount specified in Section 71.06.1 or Section
71.06.2.	Each applicant for a taxicab driver permit must also be issued an
identification badge and shall pay a non refundable processing fee in the amount
specified in Section 71.06.1.	Every application for a driver permit for a
non-motorized vehicle shall be accompanied by a non refundable processing fee in
the amount specified in Section 71.06.1.	The Board may require an applicant to
furnish via live-scan capture or on forms prescribed by the Board, the
fingerprints of the applicant.  A non refundable fingerprint processing fee in
the amount specified in Section 71.06.1, which is in addition to the application
processing fee, shall accompany the application for which fingerprint processing
is required.	Upon approval of the application, the Department shall issue to the
permittee a conditional permit in the form prescribed by the Board, pending
receipt of applicant’s criminal history record.  If such record proves to be
satisfactory to the Department, the permit issued shall no longer be considered
conditional.	Notwithstanding Sections 71.07, 71.08 and 71.09 hereof,
falsification of an application for driver permit shall be grounds for immediate
cancellation of a permit and/or denial of an application for a permit by the
Department.
