                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

FEES FOR SERVICES PROVIDED OUTSIDE OF NORMAL WORKING HOURS. (§ 71.06.2)

  FEES FOR SERVICES PROVIDED OUTSIDE OF NORMAL WORKING HOURS.
	(Re-added by Ord. No. 171,247, Eff. 9/27/96.)	Upon request to the Department of
Transportation with respect to matters involving the regulation of vehicles
defined in Section 71.00, the Department may assign staff to provide services
outside of normal working hours, subject to payment to the City of its costs as
hereinafter provided:	(a)	Each such request must be received by the Department
no less than one week prior to the time for which services are requested.	(b)	In
each such instance the Department of Transportation shall charge and collect the
total costs of Departmental work, services, and materials provided outside of
normal working hours.	(c)	Prior to the Department proceeding pursuant to any
such request, the applicant requesting services outside of normal working hours
shall deposit with the City that sum estimated by the Department to be
sufficient to pay the City for all City costs with respect thereto.	(d)	The
deposit may vary in amount from time to time depending upon the scope of the
costs and expenses reasonably anticipated as necessary to provide the work,
services, and materials to be used for the services requested, provided that the
estimated sum required to be deposited shall be based upon and not be
inconsistent with the actual costs of similar work done by, and materials used
by, the Department in the regular course of its duties.	(e)	The Department shall
estimate the amount of the deposit in conformity with a schedule adopted by the
General Manager on a semiannual or less frequent basis which sets forth and
applies then current salary schedules and verifiable time and materials costs of
the City with respect to those types of Departmental activities.  The schedule
shall be kept on file by the Department and be available to any applicant
depositor at the time an application is made or as otherwise
requested.	(f)	Money received as a deposit from an applicant shall be deposited
into the Department of Transportation Trust Fund and shall be transferred to the
General Fund to first reimburse the Departmental costs incurred in providing
services and materials referred to in Subsection (b) above for the
applicant-depositor.	(g)	As a condition to the Department proceedings set forth
above, any deposit accepted pursuant to this section shall be adjusted at the
completion of the services requested to conform to actual costs as
follows:	1.	In the event actual costs incurred by the City are less than the
deposit received by the City, the applicant shall be entitled to reimbursement
of the excess from the deposit; and	2.	In the event the costs exceed the sum on
deposit, all such additional costs shall be paid by the applicant-depositor to
the City upon demand.
