                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

MONETARY PENALTIES FOR DRIVER, VEHICLE AND ATTENDANT PERMITTEES. (§ 71.09.2)

  MONETARY PENALTIES FOR DRIVER, VEHICLE AND ATTENDANT PERMITTEES.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,901, Eff. 5/31/01.)	(a)	Monetary penalties may be
levied against an individual permit holder in lieu of or in addition to
suspension, revocation or cancellation of permits as described in Sec. 71.09. 
Monetary penalties may be levied on a per violation or a per day basis and may
escalate on a first, second, or third violation basis.  Violations which
endanger the public health, welfare, and/or safety shall receive the maximum
penalties.	(b)	The Board shall adopt by resolution a schedule of monetary
penalties for specific violations.  (Amended by Ord. No. 177,715, Eff.
9/4/06.)	(c)	The monetary penalties established by the Board in (b) above may be
assessed and collected by the General Manager of the Department or authorized
representative.	(d)	The Board may adopt a hearing examiner procedure in
accordance with Div. 19, Ch. 3, Art. 1 of the Los Angeles Administrative
Code.	(e)	Payment of a monetary penalty or the serving of a suspension shall
constitute a waiver of the right to further appeal of any monetary penalty or
suspension to the Board.	(f)	The provisions of Section 71.02.2 (f) are
applicable herein.	(g)	The total monetary penalty payment is due by the date
established by the Board or 30 days after the end of the month in which payment
has accrued, whichever comes first.  The payment  is delinquent if not paid on
or before the due date.	(h)	A penalty of 10% or as otherwise established by the
Board  of the amount of the payment shall be assessed on any payment which has
become delinquent.  Failure to pay any delinquent payment on or before the last
day of the fourth month following the date on which the payment first became
delinquent will result in the assessment of a second penalty of 10% of the
amount of the payment in addition to the amount of the payment and the 10%
penalty first imposed.	(i)	In addition to the penalties imposed above, failure
to pay any payment required by ordinance and by the franchise or operating
permit will result in the assessment of interest charges at the rate of 1-1/2%
per month, or fraction thereof, on the amount of the payment, exclusive of
penalties, from the date on which the payment first became delinquent until it
is paid.
