                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

APPLICATION AND ANNUAL OR MONTHLY FEE FOR VEHICLE PERMITS. (§ 71.05)

  APPLICATION AND ANNUAL OR MONTHLY FEE FOR VEHICLE PERMITS.
	(Title Amended by Ord. No. 165,491, Eff. 3/19/90.)	(a)	Applicants for vehicle
permits shall file with the department an application upon forms provided by the
department, containing such information as is required by the rules and
regulations of the Board.  (Amended by Ord. No. 149,526, Eff.
5/21/77.)	(b)	Taxicab Operators and Taxicab Vehicle Permittees.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 177,843, Eff. 10/1/06.)		(1)	Each new or replacement member of a
franchised taxicab operator who makes application for membership as a taxicab
vehicle permittee shall submit with an application a nonrefundable processing
fee, in the amount specified in Section 71.06.1.	(2)	Each franchised taxicab
operator shall pay an annual taxicab vehicle permit fee, in the amount specified
in Section 71.06.1, for each vehicle fleet position slot used during the
calendar year.	(3)	The monthly franchise base fee for each authorized taxicab
fleet position shall be $128.00 multiplied by a meter rate adjustment factor
(MRAF).  The MRAF shall be determined by the Board and shall be the ratio of
the cost of a five paid-mile trip at the level of rates that may be approved by
Board Order from time to time to the cost of a five paid-mile trip at the meter
rates in effect at the effective date of this ordinance.	(4)	The total monthly
franchise fee for each authorized taxicab fleet position shall be the base fee
multiplied by the Service Factor.	(5)	Upon the effective date of this ordinance,
the Service Factor shall be fifty percent until modified by the Board.	(6)	The
total monthly franchise fee payment is due 30 days after the end of the month in
which payment has accrued.  The payment is delinquent if not paid on or before
the due date.	(7)	A penalty of ten percent of the amount of the payment shall be
assessed on any payment that has become delinquent.  Failure to pay any
delinquent payment on or before the last day of the fourth month following the
date on which the payment first became delinquent will result in the assessment
of a second penalty of ten percent of the amount of the payment in addition to
the amount of the payment and the ten percent penalty first imposed.	(8)	In
addition to the penalties imposed above, failure to pay any payment required by
ordinance and by the franchise will result in the assessment of interest charges
at the rate of one and one-half percent per month, or fraction of a month, on
the amount of the payment, exclusive of penalties, from the date on which the
payment first became delinquent until it is paid.	(9)	The amount of any monthly
franchise fee in excess of the monthly fee that is calculated using a Service
Factor of fifty percent shall not be allowed as a permit fee expense for the
rate making purposes.	(10)	Each franchised taxicab operator shall pay a monthly
taxicab vehicle bandit enforcement fee, in the amount specified in Section
71.06.1, for each taxicab in service (provided a City Seal by the City) during
any part of the billing month.  This assessment shall be collected only if a
portion of the taximeter activation “flag drop” charge, or other funding
mechanism, has been established and approved for bandit enforcement by the Board
of Taxicab Commissioners.  Revenue generated from the collection of taxicab
vehicle bandit enforcement fees shall be placed into a separately designated
account in the Transportation Regulation and Enforcement Trust Fund, and shall
be used for the establishment and maintenance of a unit of police officers
dedicated to enforcing the City’s laws prohibiting the operation of illegal
taxicabs and vehicles for hire.  Revenue collected in excess of the funding
level contractually agreed to or stipulated by the Department for these police
officer enforcement efforts shall be retained and used by the Department
exclusively for bandit taxicab enforcement purposes.	(c)	(Amended by Ord. No.
180,541, Eff. 3/28/09.) Each application for a new, or renewal vehicle permit,
other than a taxicab, shall be accompanied by a non-refundable filing fee in the
amount specified in Section 71.06.1 for each vehicle covered by the
application.	If the application is for a permit to operate a vehicle, other than
a taxicab that is inspected at least annually by another governmental agency,
then the non-refundable Vehicle Permit processing fee for such vehicle shall be
reduced by $25.00.	If the application is for a permit to use a vehicle, other
than a taxicab or non-motorized vehicle, for a period not exceeding 30 days, as
a substitute for a vehicle for which a permit is in full force and effect, no
processing fee shall be required.  If the application is for a temporary permit
in excess of 30 days, it shall be accompanied by a non-refundable processing fee
of $50.00 for each vehicle covered by such application.  Temporary permits,
other than for taxicabs or non-motorized vehicles, will not be issued for a
period in excess of 60 days.	(d)	Any money due to the Department of
Transportation by any applicant for a vehicle permit, including money owed for
outstanding parking tickets or other fines assessed by the Department, must
first be paid, or the matter otherwise resolved to the satisfaction of the
Department, prior to the issuance of such permit.  (Amended by Ord. No.
166,534, Eff. 1/31/91.)
