                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SCOPE AND DEFINITIONS. (§ 71.00)

  SCOPE AND DEFINITIONS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 170,068, Eff. 11/18/94.)

	Scope.  The provisions of this chapter apply when the provisions are not in
conflict with any paramount regulations by the state or nation.

	For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases are defined
and shall be construed as hereinafter set out, unless it shall be apparent from
the context that they have a different meaning:

	“Automobile-For-Hire” shall mean every automobile, other than taxicabs,
used for prearranged transportation of passengers over the streets of this City
and not over a defined route within the boundary limits of said City at rates
per mile, per trip, per hour, per day, per week or per month.  Such vehicle
shall not be equipped with a taximeter or facsimile thereof, shall not display
advertisements or possess a top light, is not required to display a company logo
or maintain a two-way radio and is not permitted to solicit passengers from City
streets, sidewalks or other public areas.

	“Board” shall mean the Board of Taxicab Commissioners of this City
exclusively with regard to all taxicab rules and regulations, and “Board”
shall mean the Board of Transportation Commissioners of this City exclusively
with regard to all other vehicle rules and regulations other than taxicab
matters.  (Amended by Ord. No. 172,023, Eff. 6/26/98.)

	“Department” shall mean the Department of Transportation of this City.

	“Driver” shall mean every person who drives or is in actual physical
control of a vehicle defined in this section, either as an agent, employee or
otherwise.

	“Motor Bus” shall mean every automobile, jitney bus, stage and autostage,
and every other motor-propelled vehicle owned, controlled, operated and managed
for public use in the transportation of persons over any public street in the
City of Los Angeles, and into which passengers are received and from which
passengers are discharged along the route traversed by such vehicle, provided
that other vehicles defined herein shall not be deemed included in said term.

	“Non-ambulatory Passenger Vehicle” shall mean every motor vehicle specially
constructed, modified, equipped, or arranged for the purpose of transporting
passengers in litters or wheelchairs on a non-emergency basis, used for the
purpose of serving the public, and driven by any person other than a
governmental agency, whether or not the transportation extends beyond the City
limits and whether or not any fee, compensation, or consideration is charged,
paid, or received for such transportation.

	“Non-motorized Vehicle” shall mean every vehicle for hire powered by people
or animal whether pulled, drawn, pushed or pedaled, and used for the
transportation of passengers over streets or ways of the City.  The Board shall
determine the suitability of streets and pickup zones to be permitted for use,
the hours of operation, insurance requirements and other restrictions for
non-motorized vehicle service.

	“Operator” shall mean any person or corporation who conducts or manages a
business using the vehicles defined in Section 71.00.

	“Private Ambulance” shall mean every vehicle equipped with a siren and
specially constructed, modified, equipped or arranged for the purpose of
transporting sick, injured, convalescent, infirm or otherwise incapacitated
persons, used for the purpose of serving the public, and driven by any person
other than governmental agency.

	“Public Transportation Vehicle” shall mean every automobile or motor
propelled vehicle, not otherwise defined in this section, used for the
transportation of passengers over streets of this City, whether or not the
transportation extends beyond the City and whether or not any fee, compensation
or consideration of any character is charged, paid or received for such
transportation.

	“School Bus” shall mean every motor vehicle used for the transportation of
pupils to or from any school or institution of learning, or to or from school
activities, over the streets of this City, irrespective of whether such
operations extend beyond the boundary limits of this City, and regardless of
whether or not any fee, compensation or consideration is paid for such
transportation, except the following vehicles:

	1.	A motor vehicle of the pleasure type carrying only members of the household
and the guests of the owner thereof;

	2.	A motor vehicle while being operated by or under contract with the Board of
Education.

	“Sightseeing Automobile” shall mean every automobile or motor propelled
vehicle used for the transportation of passengers over streets of this City,
irrespective of whether such operations extend beyond the boundary limits of
this City, for sightseeing purposes or showing points of interest and charging a
fee or compensation therefor, regardless of whether any fee, compensation or
consideration is paid to the driver of such sightseeing automobile by the
passenger or by the owner, or by the person who employs or contracts with the
driver, or charters such sightseeing automobile with a driver to transport or
convey any passenger, and irrespective of whether or not such driver receives
any fee or compensation for the services.

	“Taxicab” shall mean every automobile or motor propelled vehicle which is
designed to carry not more than eight persons, excluding the driver, and either
is equipped with a taximeter or a top light or has the words “taxi”,
“cab” or “taxicab” displayed on the exterior of the vehicle, and used
for the transportation of passengers for hire over the streets of this City,
irrespective of whether the operations extend beyond the boundary limits of said
City, at rates for distance traveled, or for zones, or for waiting, standby or
traffic delay time, or for any combination of such rates, and not operating over
a defined route but routed under the direction of such passengers or persons
hiring the same.

	“Taxicab Operator” shall mean a taxicab franchise grantee, and the
management and officers of those grantees.  (Amended by Ord. No. 174,058, Eff.
8/9/01.)

	“Taximeter” shall mean a device that automatically calculates at
predetermined rate or rates, and indicates the charge for hire of a vehicle.

	“Zone” shall mean a place established by the Department and designated as a
zone for the use while waiting employment of any vehicle defined in Section
71.00 or operated in passenger transportation service by authority of the
California Public Utilities Commission.
