                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

AUTHORITY OF BOARD TO ESTABLISH RATES. (§ 71.25)

  AUTHORITY OF BOARD TO ESTABLISH RATES.	(a)	The Board shall have the authority
to establish and prescribe by Board order the rates to be charged for
transportation by the motor vehicles mentioned in Section 71.00. Any Board Order
fixing rates must be approved by the City Council, by ordinance, before taking
effect. However, the Board may by Board Order establish rates to be effective on
final publication and without subsequent ratification by the City Council within
the range of maximum and minimum rates established by ordinance.	(b)	(Amended by
Ord. No. 173,193, Eff. 5/29/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  No provision of this section
shall prevent the Board from approving and establishing rates outside any
ordinance-prescribed maximum and minimum rates, subject to approval by the City
Council in accordance with the provisions of Section 22.484 (g) of the Los
Angeles Administrative Code.	(c)	No rate shall be placed in effect, charged,
demanded or collected for passenger transportation service until the Board,
after hearing upon its own motion, or upon application, or upon complaint, shall
have found and determined said rate to be just, reasonable non-discriminatory,
non-preferential, and not in violation of any provision herein contained or any
provision of law; nor until said rate to be placed in effect, charged, demanded
or collected shall have been approved and established.	(d)	The Board shall have
power, upon a hearing upon its own motion or upon complaint, to investigate a
single rate or fare, or the entire schedule of rates in effect, charged,
demanded or collected for transportation, service, and to establish a new rate
or schedule of rates in lieu thereof. Nothing contained herein shall be
construed to empower the Board to approve or establish any rate, or any schedule
of rates for passenger transportation service that will, by means of rebate,
discount, sale of script books, excursion or commutation tickets, or in anywise,
violate the minimum or maximum rate or the provisions contained in this section
or any provision of law.	(e)	No provision of this article shall be deemed to
prevent the Board upon notice and after hearing, from prescribing boundaries and
establishing rates to be charged for point-to-point trips within such prescribed
boundaries, subject to Paragraphs (a) and (b) above.
