                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

RAILROAD CONNECTIONS – PERMITS. (§ 72.11)

  RAILROAD CONNECTIONS – PERMITS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,301, Eff. 6/30/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)	No person operating
a street railroad shall construct or maintain curved tracks connecting its
tracks at any street intersection with the tracks of any other street railroad
operated by the same person without first obtaining a permit therefor as
provided in this section.	(a)	Such person shall first make a written
application, signed by the applicant which shall be filed with the Office of
Finance and shall be accompanied by	(1)	Payment of Twenty-seven dollars and
fifty cents ($27.50) to cover the cost incident to the applicant. (Amended by
Ord. No. 137,137, Eff.9/29/78.)	(2)	A map or diagram showing in detail the
location of the work to be done for which the application is sought, and all
intersecting streets at the point of construction of the proposed work.	(b)	At
the next regular meeting of the Council after the filing of the application, the
Office of Finance shall submit the same to the Council. Before any action is
taken thereon, it shall be referred to the Board for its recommendation. The
Board shall proceed to inquire into the application and within thirty days after
such application shall have been referred to it, or longer if allowed by the
Council, shall report to the Council its recommendation relative thereto. If, in
the judgment of the Board, the application should not be granted, it shall so
report, stating its reasons therefor; and if, in the judgment of the Board, the
application should be granted, it shall recommend the terms and conditions upon
which it shall be granted. Permits shall not be granted by the Council contrary
to the recommendation of the Board except upon two-thirds vote of the entire
Council.	(c)	Each permit granted under the provisions of this section shall be
granted by ordinance and not otherwise and shall be revocable at the pleasure of
the Council; provided that in no event shall such permit continue for a period
exceeding the unexpired term of the franchise first to expire under which street
railway tracks are maintained at such street intersections; and provided further
that in no event shall such permit continue for a period exceeding twenty-one
years.	(d)	Each such connection or connecting curve constructed or maintained
under permission granted shall be at all times constructed and maintained in
accordance with the restrictions and limitations contained in Sec. 49 of the
Civil Code of the State of California and in the ordinances of this City, and in
accordance with the regulations prescribed by the Council in the ordinance
granting such permission.	(e)	The payment of the amount required by Subsection
(a) hereof shall be deposited in the Treasury to the credit of the General
Expense Fund.
