                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

TRAINS – SPEED. (§ 72.10)

  TRAINS – SPEED.	 a.	(Amended by Ord. No. 122,281, Eff. 7/23/62.) The
operator of any steam, electric, diesel or other propelled railroad train, car,
or other rolling stock shall not drive, or cause or permit to be driven such
train, car, or other equipment into or upon a highway or street in excess of the
following speeds:	(1)	At a speed greater than is reasonable or prudent having
due regard for the traffic on, and the surface and width of the highway;	(2)	At
a speed which endangers the safety of persons or property;	(3)	At a speed
greater than thirty-five (35) miles per hour when entering any highway or street
grade crossing within the following described boundaries: Beginning at the
intersection of the north boundary of the City of Los Angeles with the Golden
State Freeway, thence southerly along said Golden State Freeway to Foothill
Boulevard, thence easterly and southerly along Foothill Boulevard to Osborne
Street, thence southerly along Osborne Street to Glenoaks Boulevard, thence
easterly along Glenoaks Boulevard to the Los Angeles-Burbank City boundary,
thence along said City boundary westerly and southerly to Riverside Drive,
thence westerly along Riverside Drive to the Ventura Freeway, thence westerly
along Ventura Freeway to Topanga Canyon Boulevard, thence northerly along
Topanga Canyon Boulevard to Santa Susana Avenue, thence northerly along Santa
Susana to the Los Angeles City boundary, thence easterly and northerly along Los
Angeles City boundary to the point of beginning;	(4)	At a speed greater than ten
(10) miles per hour whenever such a train, car or equipment is operated within
the City longitudinally over the same portion of a highway or street that is
also used by motor vehicles.	b.	The speed of any such train, car or equipment
not in excess of the limits herein specified is lawful unless clearly proved to
be in violation of the basic rule hereinabove in this section declared.	c.	The
speed of any such train, car or equipment upon a highway in excess of any of the
limits specified in this section is prima facie unlawful unless the defendant
establishes by competent evidence that any speed in excess of said limits did
not constitute a violation of the basic rule hereinabove in this section
declared, at the time, place and under the conditions then existing.	d.	The
prima facie limits referred to above are as follows:	1.	Fifteen (15) miles per
hour:	(a)	When entering any highway crossing within the district included within
the following described boundaries: Beginning at the intersection of Soto Street
and Huntington Drive, southerly along Soto Street to the southerly city limits;
thence southerly and westerly along the city boundary to Florence Avenue, thence
westerly along Florence Avenue to the west city boundary, thence northerly along
the west city boundary and West Boulevard to Slauson Avenue, thence easterly on
Slauson Avenue to Western Avenue, thence northerly along Western Avenue to
Vernon Avenue, thence easterly along Vernon Avenue to Broadway, thence northerly
along Broadway and North Broadway to Mission Road, thence northerly along
Mission Road and Huntington Drive to the point of beginning.	2.	Twenty-five (25)
miles per hour:	(a)	When entering any highway crossing within the district
included within the following described boundaries: Beginning at the
intersection of the boundary of the City of Los Angeles with Kendall Avenue and
Huntington Drive North, thence southerly and westerly along said city boundary
to the intersection of said city boundary with Soto Street, thence northerly
along Soto Street to Mission Road, thence southerly and westerly along Mission
Road and North Broadway to the Los Angeles River, thence northerly along the Los
Angeles River to North Figueroa Street, thence northerly along North Figueroa
Street, Marmion Way, and Monte Vista Street to Avenue 61, thence southeasterly
along Avenue 61 to Piedmont Avenue, thence northerly and easterly along Piedmont
Avenue, North Figueroa Street, and Pasadena Avenue to the east city boundary,
thence southerly and easterly along the city boundary to the starting
point.	e.	The Board is hereby authorized to determine those streets and
intersections at and on which movement of such train, car or equipment is
hazardous or dangerous to life or property by reason of the volume of traffic
upon such streets or at such intersections, or the lack of visibility of the
drivers of vehicles approaching said streets or intersections, or by reason of
other physical conditions likely to render any such street or intersection
dangerous or hazardous to life and property. (Amended by Ord. No. 151,833, Eff.
2/10/79, Oper. 2/25/79.)	The Board, after not less the five (5) days written
notice of hearing to such utility company whose operation is affected, and in
accordance with the provisions established by law, shall have power and
authority to adopt resolutions establishing as to said streets and intersections
lesser prima facie speed limits than those set forth above in this section. No
such lesser prima facie speed limits and resolutions shall be effective for more
than thirty (30) days unless the resolution is approved by the City Council.
(Amended by Ord. No. 151,833, Eff. 2/10/79, Oper. 2/25/79.)	An ordinance
limiting the speed of trains with the corporate limits of a City is valid.
Gillum v. Pacific Coast Ry. Co. (Wash.), 279 Pac. 114.
	Frazer v. Northern Pac. Ry. Co., 28 Fed. Supp. 20.	But see: Cincinnati v. Lucky
(Ohio), 87 N.E. 2d 894.
