                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

TITLE, PURPOSE, AND SCOPE. (§ 91.101)

  TITLE, PURPOSE, AND SCOPE.91.101.1.  Title.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,758,
Eff. 8/8/11.)  This article shall be known as the Los Angeles Building Code or
Building Code or LABC, a portion of the Los Angeles Municipal Code (LAMC), and
wherever the word Code is used in this article it shall mean the Los Angeles
Building Code.  Article 1.5 of Chapter IX of the LAMC shall collectively be
known as the Los Angeles Residential Code or LARC.  The provisions of the LARC
for one- and two-family dwellings shall apply to the construction, alteration,
movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, equipment, use and occupancy,
location, removal and demolition of detached one- and two-family dwellings and
townhouses not more than three stories above grade plane in height with a
separate means of egress and their accessory structures.  In addition to the
LARC, Sections of Chapters 1, 11A, 11B, 17, 31B, 34, 63, 67, 70, 71, 72, 81, 89,
92, 93 and 96 of the LABC shall also be applicable to one- and two-family
dwellings and townhouses unless stated otherwise.	The Los Angeles Building Code
and the Los Angeles Residential Code adopt by reference portions of the
California Building Code (CBC) or the California Residential Code (CRC)
respectively.	EXCEPTION:  Live/work units complying with the requirements of
Section 419 of the California Building Code shall be permitted to be built as
one- and two-family dwellings or townhouses.  Fire suppression required by
Section 419.5 of the California Building Code when constructed under the
California Residential Code for one- and two-family dwellings shall conform to
Section 903.3.1.3 of the California Building Code.91.101.2.  Purpose.  The
purpose of this article is to safeguard life, limb, health, property and public
welfare by regulating and controlling the design, construction, quality of
materials, use and occupancy, location and maintenance of all buildings and
structures erected or to be erected within the city, and by regulating certain
grading operations within the city.91.101.3.  Reserved.91.101.4.  Scope.   
(Amended by Ord. No. 180,619, Eff. 5/12/09.)  The provisions of this Code shall
apply to the construction, alteration, moving, demolition, repair, maintenance
and use of any building or structure within this jurisdiction, except work
located primarily in a public way, public utility towers and poles, mechanical
equipment not specifically regulated in this Code, and hydraulic flood control
structures.	For additions, alterations, moving and maintenance of buildings and
structures, see Division 34.  For temporary buildings and structures, see CBC
Section 3103.	Where, in any specific case, different sections of this Code
specify different materials, methods of construction or other requirements, the
most restrictive shall govern.  Where there is a conflict between a general
requirement and a specific requirement, the specific requirement shall be
applicable.	The codes and standards referenced in this Code shall be considered
part of the requirements of this Code to the prescribed extent of each
reference.  Where differences occur between provisions of this Code and
referenced codes and standards, the provisions of this Code shall
apply.	Wherever in this Code reference is made to an appendix, the provisions in
the appendix shall not apply unless specifically adopted.	The metric conversions
are provided in parenthesis following the English units.  Where industry has
made metric conversions available, the conversions conform to current industry
standards.  Formulas are also provided with metric equivalents.  Metric
equivalent formulas immediately follow the English formula and are denoted by
“For SI” preceding the metric equivalent.  Some formulas do not use
dimensions and, thus, are not provided with a metric equivalent.  Multiplying
conversion factors have been provided for formulas where metric forms were
unavailable.  Tables are provided with multiplying conversion factors in
subheadings for each tabulated units measurement.91.101.5.  Work Not in
Scope.  The provisions of this Code shall not apply to any of the
following:	1.	A building accessory to a dwelling and not located in Fire
District No. 1 provided the building is not more than 64 square feet in area or
8 feet in height and does not contain any heating, plumbing or electrical
installation, and is located as permitted by the Los Angeles Zoning Code. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 180,619, Eff. 5/12/09.)	2.	Oil derricks.	3.	Towers or poles
supporting public utility communication lines, antennas, or power transmission
lines.	4.	(Amended by Ord. No. 172,592, Eff. 6/28/99, Oper. 7/1/99.)  Retaining
walls which are not over 4 feet (1219 mm) in height, measured from the bottom of
the footing to the top of the wall, unless supporting a surcharge or sloping
earth, or impounding flammable liquids.  This exemption shall not apply to
retaining walls of any height built on slopes steeper than 1 vertical to 5
horizontal  (20% slope).	5.	Water tanks supported directly upon grade if the
capacity does not exceed 5,000 gallons (18 927 L) and the ratio of the height to
diameter or width does not exceed 2 to 1.	6.	Motion picture sets when not
supported by any portion of any building.	7.	Pergolas and lath houses, both of
which shall be outside of any fire district, not over 400 square feet in area,
and not supported by or attached to any portion of any building.	8.	Work in a
public way, dams and drainage structures constructed by or under contract with
the Board of Public Works, the Department of Water and Power and the County
Flood Control District, unless the structure forms a portion of the support for
a building or a structure coming within the jurisdiction of the Department of
Building and Safety.	9.	Portable amusement devices and structures, including
merry-go-rounds, ferris wheels, rotating conveyances, slides, similar devices,
and portable accessory structures whose use is necessary for the operation of
such amusement devices and structures; any portable accessory structure included
in the provisions of this subdivision shall be limited to a cover or roof over
each device, but shall not include any storage building or detached structure
which is not an integral part of the device.	10.	Isolated buildings not larger
in area than 16 square feet, including roof projections, and not more than 8
feet in height, if separated by a distance of 20 feet or more.	11.	Nothing in
this Code shall apply to any excavation, removal, fill or deposit of any earth
or other materials from individual interment sites, underground crypts or burial
vaults within a property which is dedicated or used for cemetery purposes,
provided that such work does not affect the lateral support or increase the
stresses in or pressure upon any adjacent or contiguous property not owned by
the cemetery authority.	12.	The surface mining of minerals in a “G” Surface
Mining District as established and provided for in Section 13.03 of the
Municipal Code, or where permitted by order of a court of competent
jurisdiction.	13.	The depositing of rubbish or other material at any dump
operated by the City of Los Angeles, or by any person pursuant to the provisions
of Section 66.15 or 66.25 of the Municipal Code.	14.	Nothing in this Code shall
apply to grading in an isolated, self-contained area if the department finds
that by reason of such isolation and self-containment no danger to private or
public property can now or thereafter result from grading operations.	15.	Any
portable metal hangar less than 2,000 square feet in size, located on a
city-owned airport, used for the parking of aircraft only, and bearing evidence
of approval by the Department of Motor Vehicles of the State of California for
movement on any highway.  The structure shall, as an integral part of its basic
construction, be equipped with a hitch or coupling device for towing.  It shall
accommodate, without further major structural change, wheel and axle assemblies
which will provide the structure with a safe means of portability.  No water or
sanitary facilities shall be permitted in this structure and it shall be
equipped with permanent ventilation as required for Group S-1 Occupancy. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 180,619, Eff. 5/12/09.)	16.	Tents and trailers used for
office or shelter purposes accessory to a Christmas tree sales lot during the
month of December only, provided the aggregate area of all tents and trailers
does not exceed 600 square feet for each sales lot. (Such tents are regulated by
the Fire Department under Article 7, Chapter V of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code.)	17.	Tents accessory to a dwelling and not exceeding 450 square feet in
area.	18.	Signs not exceeding 20 square feet in area, placed upon the surface of
the ground, no part of which extends more than 6 feet 6 inches above the
underlying ground, which have no mechanical or moving parts or to which no
electricity or other source of illumination or power are attached or made a part
thereof. Such signs shall be separated from each other a minimum distance of 15
feet.	19.	Boards and signs used exclusively to display official notices issued
by any court or public officer in the performance of a public duty or by a
private person in giving legal notice.
