                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. (§ 91.109)

  CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.91.109.1.  Certificate Required. In order to
safeguard life and limb, health, property and public welfare, every building or
structure and every trailer park shall conform to the construction requirements
for the subgroup occupancy to be housed therein, or for the use to which the
building or structure or trailer park is to be put, as set forth in this
article.	No building or structure or portion thereof and no trailer park or
portion thereof shall be used or occupied until a Certificate of Occupancy has
been issued thereof.	EXCEPTIONS:	1.	Unless it is specifically required by other
provisions of this article, no existing building or portion thereof shall
require a Certificate of Occupancy, provided:	A.	The occupancy housed therein is
the same for which the original building permit was issued; and	B.	The use of a
building or portion thereof housing a Group A or E Occupancy and constructed
prior to 1934 has not been discontinued for a period of more than six
months.	2.	No structure, the architecture of which inhibits occupancy, shall
require a Certificate of Occupancy.91.109.2.  Change of Occupancy.  See
Division 82.91.109.3.  Issuance of Certificates.  When required by Section
91.109.1, after the receipt and approval of the final inspection report from
each of the divisions of the department, and after the city engineer has
reported that all required public improvements have been completed, the
Superintendent of Building shall issue a Certificate of Occupancy, without
charge, to the owner of the building. Duplicates of the certificate may be
secured upon the payment of the duplication fee required by ordinance.	When a
Certificate of Occupancy is issued, it shall supersede every certificate
previously issued for that portion of the building described thereon.91.109.4. 
Contents of Certificate.  Each certificate shall contain the following:	1.	The
building permit numbers.	2.	The address of the building.	3.	The name and address
of the owner.	4.	A description of that portion of the building for which the
certificate is issued.	5.	For Groups A and E Occupancies, the maximum occupant
load allowed.	6.	A statement that the described portion of the building complies
with the construction requirements of the Los Angeles Municipal Code for the
group of occupancies in which the proposed occupancy is classified.	7.	A
statement that establishes relevant requirements of the Zoning Code.	8.	The
signature of the Superintendent of Building or an authorize representative of
the Superintendent.91.109.5.  Temporary Certificates.  Notwithstanding the
provisions of Section 91.109.4, if the Superintendent of Building finds that no
substantial hazard will result from the occupancy of any building, or portion
thereof, before the same is completed, and satisfactory evidence is submitted
that the work could not have been completed prior to the time such occupancy is
desired because of its magnitude or because of unusual construction
difficulties, and the city engineer has reported that all required public
improvements have been completed, the Superintendent of Building may issue a
temporary Certificate of Occupancy for any building or portion thereof. The
Superintendent of Building may issue a temporary Certificate of Occupancy
notwithstanding the fact that all required public improvements have not been
completed, if the superintendent finds that the failure to complete the public
improvements was due to circumstances over which the person applying for the
Certificate of Occupancy had no control.	In addition, the Superintendent of
Building may issue a temporary Certificate of Occupancy for an existing
building, or portion thereof, provided no substantial hazard will result and
satisfactory evidence is submitted justifying the need for such temporary
occupancy.  The department shall collect an issuance fee for each temporary
Certificate of Occupancy.  The amount of the fee shall be $453.00 plus an
additional fee as shown in Table No. 1-B of this Code.  (Amended by Ord. No.
180,868, Eff. 10/22/09.)	Such temporary Certificate of Occupancy shall be valid
for a period not to exceed six months. The department may issue additional
temporary Certificates of Occupancy. After the expiration of a temporary
Certificate of Occupancy, the building or structure shall require a Certificate
of Occupancy in accordance with other provisions of this section. Duplicates of
the certificate or temporary certificate may be secured upon the payment of the
duplication fee required by ordinance.91.109.6.  Revocation.  The
Superintendent of Building shall have the authority, in writing, to suspend or
revoke a Certificate of Occupancy or Temporary Certificate of Occupancy issued
under the provisions of this Code whenever the certificate is issued in error,
or on the basis of incorrect information supplied, or when it is determined that
the building or structure or portion of the building or structure is in
violation of any ordinance or regulation or any of the provisions of this
Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)91.109.7. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 91.109.4, whenever public improvements
are required in connection with the replacement or restoration of a building
destroyed or damaged during the local emergency declared by the Mayor in April,
1992, the completion of those public improvements may be deferred until June 1,
1995, and a temporary Certificate of Occupancy may issue for the new or restored
building or a portion thereof prior to the completion of the public
improvements. The temporary Certificate of Occupancy shall issue only if the
Superintendent of Building finds that no substantial hazard will result from the
occupancy of the building or portion thereof prior to the completion of the
public improvements. This Section 91.109.7 does not affect any requirement of a
bond or other security to warrant the proper completion of the required public
improvements.91.109.8.  Fire Department Notification.  For each Group A and E
Occupancy, a copy of the certificate shall be forwarded to the Los Angeles Fire
Department.
