                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

CONTRACTORS RESPONSIBILITY. (§ 91.1709)

  CONTRACTORS RESPONSIBILITY.
	(Title and Section Amended by Ord. 181,758, Eff. 8/8/11.)	Section 1709 of the
CBC is adopted by reference, and Sections 91.1709.2, 91.1709.2.1, 91.1709.2.2,
91.1709.2.3, 91.1709.2.4, 91.1709.2.5, and 91.1709.2.6 are added.91.1709.2.
Certified Licensed Contractors.91.1709.2.1. Registration.  Application for
registration as a certified licensed contractor shall be made to the
Superintendent of Building on a form furnished by the Department and a separate
application shall be made for each type of registration desired.  Before the
application can be accepted, the applicant must furnish proof satisfactory to
the Department that the applicant holds a valid active California State
Contractor’s License in the same specialty as the certification
requested.91.1709.2.2. Application.	1.	Form.  Application for a Certificate of
Registration shall be made on a form furnished by the
Department. 	2.	Information Necessary.  The application shall bear the name
and address of the applicant and, if the applicant is employed by a firm,
partnership or corporation, the names of the principal officers should also be
included.  The application shall carry other information deemed necessary by
the Department.	3.	Verification.  The applicant shall declare that the
information contained in the application is true and correct.	4.	Fee.  The
application shall be accompanied by an examination fee of $188.  91.1709.2.3.
Examination.	1. 	Examination Required.  Before issuance of a Certificate of
Registration, the applicant shall have successfully passed the examination
required for the issuance of the Certificate of Registration within 90 days
preceding the date of the issuance.  To be eligible for the examination for a
Certificate of Registration, the applicant shall have a valid California State
Contractor’s License in an appropriate specialty and a valid City Business Tax
Certificate.	2.	Board of Examiners.  The Superintendent of Building and/or
Board of Examiners composed of three qualified persons appointed by the
Superintendent shall conduct examinations. The results of every examination
shall be subject to the approval of the Superintendent of Building. Each
examiner shall serve at the pleasure of the Superintendent of Building and shall
serve for a period of one year unless reappointed by the
Superintendent.	3.	Scope of Examination.  The examination shall, in the
judgment of the Superintendent of Building, fairly determine the ability of the
applicant to perform properly the work, which he or she would be authorized to
do by the Certificate of Registration requested, and may include the
following:	a.	A written test.	b.	Practical tests as may be required.	c.	An oral
interview as may be required.	d.	Other tests as may be required by the Board of
Examiners.	4.	Time of Examination.  The applicant shall be examined as soon as
practicable after filing an application.	5.	Rules and Regulations.  The
Department shall have the authority to establish rules and regulations for the
conduct of examinations.	6.	Fitness of Applicant.  Any applicant may be
required to submit satisfactory proof of his or her fitness to carry out the
intent of this Code.	7.	Failure to Pass.  An applicant who fails to pass an
examination shall not be eligible for another examination until four weeks after
taking the previous examination.91.1709.2.4. Issuance of Certificates.	1.	The
Superintendent of Building shall issue separate Certificates of Registration for
each of the following categories:	a.	FAU/AC units; evaporative
coolers.	b.	Domestic water piping/plumbing fixtures/hot water heaters/solar
panels.	c.	Reroofing and roof repair.	d.	Electrical equipment/fixtures/smoke
detectors.	e.	Masonry and concrete fences.	f.	Masonry chimney repairs.	g.	Shower
pan replacement.	Nothing here prohibits any person from being qualified for more
than one type of certification, provided the person makes application, pays the
required fees, takes the required examinations and is duly qualified by the
Superintendent of Building for each type of certification.	2.	Upon payment of a
$45.00 fee, the Department may issue a Certificate of Registration to every
applicant who passes the required examination for a Certified Licensed
Contractor. 	3.	Each Certificate of Registration shall expire 12 months from
the date of issuance.  	4.	The Superintendent of Building shall keep on file a
list, open to public inspection, of the names of all registered certified
licensed contractors, showing the type of work each has been authorized to
inspect.	5.	Renewal of Certificates.  Expired Certificates of Registration may
be renewed at any time within 30 days following the date of expiration.  After
a Certificate of Registration has been expired for 30 days, it may not be
renewed; rather, a new application for a new certificate must be submitted at
that time. 91.1709.2.5. Exhibition of Certificate.	1.	Every person having a
fixed place of business shall keep his or her Certificate of Registration posted
in some conspicuous location at his or her place of business during the time the
certificate is in force.	2.	Every person not having a fixed place of business
shall carry his or her Certificate of Registration with him or her at all times
while doing any inspections or other work pursuant to this
certificate.91.1709.2.6. Revocation of Certificate.  The Superintendent of
Building may revoke, suspend or refuse to renew any Certificate of Registration
upon a showing of incompetence, willful or negligent failure to observe or
report violations of this Code, or failure to maintain a valid active California
State Contractor’s License in the same specialty as the certification.  Prior
to any action, the holder shall be given an opportunity to appear before the
Superintendent of Building and be heard.	Suspension or revocation of any
Certificate of Registration issued under this Section shall be in accordance
with the provisions of Article 8, Chapter IX of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.
