                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

APPEALS. (§ 91.105)

  APPEALS.91.105.1.  General.  or requests for slight modifications in
individual cases from the requirements of this Code shall be made in accordance
with the procedure established in Section 98.0403.2 of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code.91.105.2.  Building Advisory Appeal Board.  The Building Advisory Appeal
Board is hereby abolished. Any duties assigned to the Building Advisory Appeal
Board by any provision of law shall be performed as determined by the
Superintendent of Building.91.105.3.  Engineering Geology Advisory
Committee.91.105.3.1.  Function of the Committee.  It shall be the function of
the Engineering Geology Advisory Committee to advise and counsel the board on
appeals involving technical questions of soils engineering, geology,
geology/seismology and related matters.91.105.3.2.  Establishment of the
Committee Member List.  The Board of Building and Safety Commissioners shall
establish an Engineering Geology Advisory Committee member list (hereinafter in
this section referred to as the “committee member list”) which shall consist
of not less than 10 soils engineers and engineering geologists who are available
to serve as members of the Engineering Geology Advisory Committee.  At least
two of the engineering geologist members and two of the soils engineer members
shall have experience in the field of seismic design and safety. Members of said
committee shall be exempt from all Civil Service provisions.91.105.3.3. 
Procedure.  When an appeal is made to the Board, and the Board determines that
the subject of the appeal involves a problem of soils engineering, geology,
geology/seismology or a related matter on which it desires further technical
advice before it renders a decision thereon, the Board may select three or more
persons from the Engineering Geology Advisory Committee member list to serve on
a committee for the purpose of assisting the Board in seeking a solution to said
problem, and may refer the matter to such committee members for report and
recommendation. At least one member of the committee so designated shall be a
soils engineer and one shall be an engineering geologist. The members of the
committee so meeting shall review the matter and shall then submit to the board
a recommendation. When a matter is referred to the committee as in this section
provided, the board shall consider, but is not bound to accept, the
recommendation of the committee.91.105.3.4.  Compensation of Members.  Each
member of the committee who is in actual attendance at a meeting requested by
the board shall be compensated at the rate of $50.00 for each four hours or
fraction thereof of service. However, in no case shall the compensation of the
committee members exceed the fee paid by the appellant under Section 91.105.3.6
of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.91.105.3.5.  Self insurance by the City for
Committee Members.  The provisions of Sections 11.36 through 11.44, inclusive,
City of Los Angeles Administrative Code, entitled “Self Insurance by the City
for Officers and Employees of Said City”, shall apply to each Engineering
Geology Advisory Committee member while the member is acting as such, and
committee members shall be deemed to be fully covered by the provisions of said
sections even though each committee member is retained as an independent person
and not as an officer or employee of the city.91.105.3.6.  Fees.  When a
matter is referred to the committee as provided in this section, the appellant
in said matter shall pay a referral fee of $50.00 and shall also pay a fee as
follows:	1.	Where no more than two lots are involved in the appeal,
$150.00;	2.	Where not less than three or more than 10 lots are involved in the
appeal, $300.00;	3.	Where more than 10 lots are involved in the appeal,
$600.00.91.105.4.  Sign Advisory Committee.91.105.4.1.  Function of the
Committee.  It shall be the function of a Sign Advisory Committee to advise,
counsel and provide recommendations to the Board of Building and Safety
Commissioners on matters involving sign regulations.91.105.4.2.  Establishment
of the Committee Member List.  The Board of Building and Safety Commissioners
shall establish a Sign Advisory Committee member list representing the various
required fields of interest of persons who are available to serve as members of
a Sign Advisory Committee. Persons selected for the Sign Advisory Committee list
shall possess experience in the design, fabrication, the use or application of
signs, or shall have demonstrated a background in the social and environment
impacts of signs or the development of sign regulations. Members of said
committee shall be exempt from all civil service requirements.91.105.4.3. 
Procedure.  When the board determines that a matter is significant in nature,
the board may refer the matter to a Sign Advisory Committee for evaluation and
recommendation before it renders a decision thereon. When the matter is referred
to a Sign Advisory Committee, the board shall consider, but is not bound to
accept, the recommendation of the committee.91.105.4.4.  Composition of the
Committee.  The board shall select five persons from the Sign Advisory
Committee member list to serve on a committee. The committee shall be composed
of one member from each of the following interests:	1.	One member of or
designated by the Board of Building and Safety Commissioners;	2.	One member of
or designated by the City Planning Commission; and	3.	Three public members, one
each from the following interests: architecture, sign industry and community
groups.91.105.4.5.  Compensation of Members.  Each member of the committee who
is in actual attendance at a meeting requested by the board shall be compensated
at the rate of $50.00 for each four hours or fraction thereof of service.
However, in no case shall the compensation of the committee members exceed the
fee paid by the applicant under Section 91.105.4.7.91.105.4.6.  Self-insurance
by the City for Committee Members.  The provisions of Sections 11.36 through
11.44, inclusive, of the Los Angeles Administrative Code shall apply to each
Sign Advisory Committee member while the member is acting as such, and committee
members shall be deemed to be fully covered by the provisions of said sections
even though each committee member is retained as an independent person and not
as an officer or employee of the city.91.105.4.7.  Fees.  When a matter is
referred to the committee as provided in this section, the applicant in said
matter shall pay a referral fee of $300.00.91.105.5.  Disabled Access Appeals
Commission.91.105.5.1.  Creation of the Commission.  There is hereby
established a commission known as the Disabled Access Appeals
Commission.91.105.5.2.  Membership of the Commission.  (Amended by Ord. No.
173,238, Eff. 6/19/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  The Disabled Access Appeals Commission
shall be composed of five qualified persons.  Two members of the commission
shall be physically disabled persons, and two members shall be persons
experienced in construction. The fifth member may be any resident of the City of
Los Angeles. Commission members shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to
Council approval, and may be removed by the Mayor.  In the case of a vacancy
during the term of office of any member, the same shall be filled by appointment
by the mayor for the period of the unexpired term subject to the approval of the
council by a majority vote. The members of the commission shall be exempt from
all Civil Service provisions.91.105.5.3.  Compensation and Term of Office. 
Each member of the commission shall be paid $50.00 per meeting attended, but not
to exceed $250.00 in any one calendar month.	The term of office of the members
of the commission shall be five years beginning with the first day of July of
the respective years, except that the terms of office of the original five
members of the commission appointed pursuant to this subsection shall be such
that one term shall expire on the first June 30, one term shall expire on the
second June 30, one term shall expire on the third June 30, one term shall
expire on the fourth June 30, and one term shall expire on the fifth June 30
next following the effective date of the appointment of the original five
members. Thereafter, the terms of the succeeding members shall be so designated
that the term of office of one member shall expire each year. The period of term
of each member shall be designated in the appointment.	Each member of the
commission shall have the power to administer oaths.91.105.5.4.  Authority of
the Commission.  (Amended by Ord. 181,758, Eff. 8/8/11.)  The commission shall
have and exercise the following powers:	1.	To hear and determine written appeals
brought by any person from actions taken by the Department of Building and
Safety (department) in the enforcement of the requirements of Section 19955, et
seq., of the California Health and Safety Code, the provisions of state law
dealing with access to public accommodations by physically disabled
persons.	2.	To hear and determine written appeals brought by any person from the
rulings, decisions and determinations of the department granting or denying
applications for exceptions pursuant to Health and Safety Code Section
19957.	3.	To hear and determine written appeals brought by any persons where it
is alleged that there is error or abuse of discretion in any order, requirement,
decision, interpretation or other determination made by the department in the
enforcement or administration of Section 1.8 et seq., Chapter 1, Division I of
California Building Code and any other federal, state or municipal handicapped
access and adaptability requirements. 	All appeals shall be reviewed by the
department.  The department may reverse or modify the action appealed from at
any time prior to final action by the commission.  Any such new action may then
be appealed to the commission.	4.	To respond to the department’s request for
advice on any matter within the department’s jurisdiction relating to access
to public accommodations and housing by the physically disabled.	5.	To exercise
the authority granted in Section 91.105.6.91.105.5.5.  Appeals.91.105.5.5.1. 
Procedures.  (Amended by Ord. No. 172,592, Eff. 6/28/99, Oper. 7/1/99.)  An
appeal to the commission may be filed by any person aggrieved, or by an officer,
Board, Department or Bureau of the City. An appeal shall be in writing and shall
be filed in the Office of the Board of Building and Safety Commissioners upon
appropriate forms provided by the Department. An appeal shall set forth
specifically the points at issue, the reasons for the appeal, and wherein the
appellant believes there was an error or an abuse of discretion by the
Department.	When considering an appeal from an action by the Department, the
commission shall make its determination within 30 days from the filing of the
appeal. This time limit may be extended by mutual written consent of the
applicant and the commission.  Upon receipt of the appeal, the commission shall
set the matter for hearing and give notice by mail of the time, place and
purpose thereof to the appellant, to the applicant, to the owner or owners of
the property involved, and to any interested party who has requested in writing
to be so notified.  Such notice shall be in writing and mailed at least 10 days
prior to said hearing.  No other notice thereof need be given except in those
cases hereinafter mentioned.	The commission may grant, conditionally grant, or
deny any appeal.  All actions of the commission shall be final.  Any action
within the jurisdiction of the commission shall be final and conclusive as to
the Department in the absence of fraud or abuse of discretion.	A separate appeal
shall be filed for each single building as described in Section 98.0403.2 of the
Los Angeles Municipal Code. Appeals to the Appeals Commission shall be
accompanied by a filing fee as set forth in Table 4-A of Division 4 of Article
8, Chapter IX, of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.	If the commission fails to act
on any appeal within the time limit specified in this section, then the action
of the Department on the matter shall be final.91.105.5.5.2.  Decision.  The
decision upon an appeal shall be concurred in by at least three members of the
commission. The commission may modify or reverse a ruling, decision or
determination appealed from only upon making written findings setting forth
specifically wherein the action of the department was in error or constituted an
abuse of discretion. The commission shall make specific written findings
supporting any modification or reversal.	Upon making a decision, a copy of the
findings and determination shall be furnished the applicant, the appellant and
the Department of Building and Safety.91.105.5.5.3.  Special Findings.  Before
granting or affirming the grant of an exception pursuant to Health and Safety
Code Section 19957, the commission must find that the application involves a
case of practical difficulty, unnecessary hardship, or extreme differences, and
that it is clearly evident that equivalent facilitation and protection will be
secured.91.105.5.5.4.  Revocation of Approvals.  The commission shall revoke
or rescind any determination, including the grant of an appeal or  exception,
if made in error in violation of any provision of law, or in reliance on any
false statement or misrepresentation as to a material fact.91.105.5.5.5.  Time
Limits.  The rights and privileges granted by the commission pursuant to any
decision, determination, approval, appeal or exception shall be void if all
required building permits are not secured within one year of the effective date
of such action, or if the permit expires under any of the conditions specified
in Section 98.0602 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.	However, the commission,
and the superintendent acting on behalf of the commission, may grant extensions
of time if the applicant submits in writing substantial evidence that unusual
conditions or circumstances either precluded the securing of all required
permits within the allocated time or caused the permit to expire as specified in
Section 98.0602 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.	Requests for extensions of
time shall be made not later than 30 days after the expiration times specified
in this section.91.105.5.5.6.  Additional Authority.  In considering appeals,
the commission may exercise the following powers:	1.	To appoint one or more
hearing officers to conduct hearings and make recommendations to the same extent
and in the same manner as the Superintendent of Building acting pursuant to LAMC
Section 98.0601 (a).  (Amended by Ord. No. 180,619, Eff. 5/12/09.)	2.	To
request the attendance of witnesses and the production of evidence before
it.	3.	To request the city attorney, or an assistant or deputy designated by the
city attorney to appear at any hearing before the commission.	4.	To adopt rules
regarding the filing of appeals, the conduct of its hearings and any other
procedural rules in keeping with the provisions of this Division.91.105.5.5.7. 
Limitations on Jurisdiction.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code,
the commission’s jurisdiction shall not include the right to hear and
determine an appeal from a department determination, order or action if such
appeal is filed:	1.	On or after the date a criminal citation is issued, charging
the appellant with a violation of law based on the facts underlying such
determination, order or action; or	2.	On or after the date a criminal complaint
is filed, charging the appellant with a violation of state laws based on such
determination, order or action.	Further, the commission’s jurisdiction shall
not include the right to hear appeals from or otherwise review any action, order
or determination of the Board of Building and Safety Commissioners.91.105.6. 
Administrative Penalties for Disabled Access Violations.91.105.6.1.  Order of
Abatement and Notice of Proposed Penalty.  If the superintendent determines
that a person has violated or failed to comply with any requirement of the law
relating to access to public accommodations and housing by the physically
disabled, then the superintendent may issue an order of abatement and notice of
proposed penalty to that person.	The order and notice shall be in writing and
shall describe with particularity the nature of the violation, including a
reference to the provision of law that has been violated. The order shall fix a
reasonable time for correction of the violation, and the notice of proposed
penalty shall set forth the amount of the penalty.	The order of abatement and
notice of proposed penalty shall be served upon the person either personally, or
by deposit in the United States mail in a sealed envelope, postage prepaid to
the person’s last known address.	The order and notice shall also set forth the
person’s right to a hearing as described in Section 91.105.6.2.91.105.6.2. 
Right to Hearing.  Any person served with an order of abatement or notice of
proposed penalty, may apply in writing to the Disabled Access Appeals Commission
for a hearing with respect to the violation alleged, the abatement period, and
the amount of the penalty. This request shall be filed within 15 days after the
date of service.	If the person does not request a hearing within the prescribed
time, then the notice of proposed penalty shall be final, and the amount of any
penalty included in the notice shall immediately be due and owing to the City of
Los Angeles. The city then shall have the right to bring an action in any court
of competent jurisdiction to enforce the order and collect the amount of the
penalty.	If the department determines that there has been compliance with the
order of abatement within the time for correction, then the department may
rescind the notice of penalty.91.105.6.3.  Time of Hearing; Notice.  If the
person requests a hearing, the superintendent shall cause the matter to be set
for hearing before the Disabled Access Appeals Commission. The hearing shall be
scheduled not later than 30 days after the date of the application for hearing.
This time limit may be extended with the mutual consent of the person and the
commission. It shall be a defense to the affirmation of any penalty that the
person complied with the order of abatement within the time for correction.	The
decision of the commission on the order of abatement and notice of proposed
penalty shall be final, and the amount of any penalty affirmed by the commission
shall immediately be due and owing to the City of Los Angeles. The city then
shall have the right to bring an action in any court of competent jurisdiction
to enforce the order and collect the amount of penalty.91.105.6.4  Civil
Penalties.  Any penalty required to be paid under the provisions of this
section is a debt owed to the City of Los Angeles. Any person owing a penalty
due under the provisions of this section shall be liable in an action brought in
the name of the City of Los Angeles in any court of competent jurisdiction for
recovery of any such amount.	The conviction of any person for violating any law
shall not relieve the person from the obligation to pay any penalty that the
person may owe the city, nor shall such payment prevent a prosecution under
appropriate provisions of law for any violation of the law. The remedies
provided in this section are cumulative. The use of one or more of the remedies
prescribed in this section shall not bar the use of any other remedy provided
for the enforcement of law.91.105.6.5.  Fee Schedules.  The Superintendent
shall submit a schedule for the assessment of civil penalties under this section
to council for the approval by ordinance.	This schedule shall give due
consideration to the appropriateness of the penalty with respect to the
following factors:	1.	The gravity of the violation;	2.	The good faith of the
violator being charged; and	3.	The history of previous violations.
