                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

INSPECTION. (§ 91.108)

  INSPECTION.91.108.1.  General.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,324, Eff.
12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)  All construction or work for which a permit is
required shall be subject to inspection by authorized employees of the
Department, and certain types of construction shall have continuous inspection
by Registered Deputy Inspectors as specified in Section 91.1704 of this Code. 
Prior to the issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy as specified in Section
91.109, a final inspection shall be made by the Department of all construction
or work for which a permit has been issued.	EXCEPTIONS:	1.	When a permit is
obtained for reroofing in compliance with Section 91.1510 of this code, the
Department may waive inspections provided the following persons certify that the
materials used comply with Section 91.1510 of this Code and work is performed
by:	A.	A licensed contractor, or	B.	The owner of the property who either did the
work or used employees of the owner to do the work pursuant to Business and
Professions Code Section 7044.	2.	When a permit is obtained for any work
performed by certified licensed contractors complying with the requirements of
Section 91.108.12.91.108.2.  Record Card. With each permit issued, the
department shall furnish a card to the applicant showing the location and nature
of the work to be done and the number of the permit.	The permit card shall be
posted in a place designated by the Superintendent of Building.91.108.3. 
Inspection Requests.  It shall be the duty of the person doing the work
authorized by a permit to notify the Superintendent of Building that such work
is ready for inspection. The Superintendent of Building may require that every
request for inspection be filed at least one working day before such inspection
is desired. Such request may be in writing or by telephone at the option of the
Superintendent of Building.	It shall be the duty of the person requesting any
inspections required by this Code to provide access to and means for inspection
of such work.91.108.4.  Approval Required. Work shall not be done beyond the
point indicated in each successive inspection without first obtaining the
approval of the Superintendent of Building. The Superintendent, upon
notification, shall make the requested inspections and shall either indicate
that portion of the construction is satisfactory as completed or shall notify
the permit holder or an agent of the permit holder wherein the same fails to
comply with this Code. Any portions which do not comply shall be corrected and
such portion shall not be covered or concealed until authorized by the
Superintendent.	There shall be a final inspection and approval of all buildings
and structures when completed and ready for occupancy and use.91.108.5. 
Required Inspections. The permittee or his agent shall notify the department
when the building or portion thereof is ready for each of the following
inspections:	1.	Foundations.  When the excavation for footings is complete and
footing forms and required reinforcing steel are in place, but before any
concrete is placed.	2.	Wood framing, ventilation equipment installation.  When
all roof, walls and floor framing, fire stopping and bracing are complete and
all pipes, chimneys, vents and ductwork are in place, but before any of this
work is covered.	3.	Wall covering.  When the backing and lath or drywall are in
place ready for plaster, stucco or taping.	4.	Reinforced concrete.  When forms
and reinforcing steel are in place ready for concrete.	5.	Reinforced masonry. 
In grouted masonry when vertical reinforcing steel is in place and other
reinforcing steel distributed and ready for placing, but before any units are
laid up.	6.	Structural steel.  When structural steel members are in place and
required connections are complete, but before concealing any members or
connection.	7.	Final.  When the construction or work is completed and the
structure ready for occupancy, but before being occupied.	The permittee or the
permittee’s agent shall notify the department on the day prior to the day on
which inspection is desired.	The department shall approve that portion of the
work inspected or notify the responsible person if the work fails to comply with
the law. Any portions which do not comply with the law shall be corrected and no
portion shall be covered or concealed with additional work until approved.	When
any of the above required inspections have been made and that portion of the
work approved, the inspector shall so record on the permit card posted on the
job.91.108.6.  Other Inspections.  In addition to the called inspections
specified above, the department may make any other inspections of any
construction work to ascertain compliance with the provisions of this Code and
other laws which the department enforces.91.108.7.  Reinspections. Fees for
additional inspections shall be assessed in accordance with Section 98.0412 of
the Los Angeles Municipal Code.91.108.8.  Surveys.  In the absence of any
designation of the proper location of the lot on which a building is to be
erected, for which building a permit has been issued, the department may require
the owner to have the lot surveyed and staked by a registered land surveyor or
registered civil engineer so that the proper location of the building on the lot
may be determined.91.108.9.  Inspection of Excavation and Fills.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 172,592, Eff. 6/28/99, Oper. 7/1/99.)  The permittee or the
permittee’s agent shall notify the Department when the grading operation is
ready for each of the following inspections:	1.	Initial meeting/inspection. 
When the permittee is ready to begin work, but before any grading operation or
brushing is started, a meeting shall be held at the project site with the
contractor and the inspectors to discuss the approved plans, soil reports and
the sequence of the grading operations.	2.	Toe inspection.  After the natural
ground is exposed and prepared to receive fill, but before any fill is
placed.	3.	Excavation inspection.  After the excavation is started, but before
the vertical depth of the excavation exceeds 10 feet.	4.	Fill inspection. 
After the fill emplacement is started, but before the vertical height of the
lifts exceeds 10 feet.	5.	Drainage device inspection.  After forms and pipe are
in place, but before any concrete is placed.	6.	Rough grading.  When all rough
grading has been completed.  This inspection may be called for at the
completion of the rough grading without the necessity of the Department having
previously reviewed and approved the reports.	7.	Final.  When all work,
including installation of all drainage structures and other protective devices,
has been completed and the as-graded plan and required reports have been
submitted.	The Department shall approve the work inspected or notify the
permittee or owner wherein the work fails to comply with the law.  Any portion
of the work which does not comply with the law shall be corrected.91.108.10. 
Revised Grading Plan. If the inspector finds that the soil or other conditions
are not as stated in the application for a grading permit, the inspector may
refuse to approve further work until a revised grading plan is obtained which
conforms to the existing conditions.91.108.11.  Approved Fabricators. The
inspections provided for in this section shall not be required for construction
or installation work done on the premises of a Type II fabricator to whom an
approval has been issued pursuant to the provisions of Division C of Article 6
of Chapter IX of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.91.108.12.  Inspections by
Certified Licensed Contractors of Work Performed on Detached Single-family
Dwellings.91.108.12.1.  In lieu of the inspections made by employees of the
Department, as specified in Section 91.108 of this Code, a certified licensed
contractor, employed by the owner, upon notification to the Department prior to
the commencement of work, may install, inspect and certify the following work as
being performed in compliance with the provisions of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code for a detached single-family dwelling:	1.	The replacement of defective
water heaters with one of the equivalent gallonage, Btu rating and vent capacity
when the vent does not require relocation or replacement.	2.	The replacement of
defective forced-air units with one of equivalent size, Btu rating and vent
capacity when the vent does not require relocation or replacement.	3.	The
replacement of defective air-conditioning units with one of equivalent size and
Btu rating;	4.	The replacement of plumbing fixtures and solar panels with equal
kind and quality;	5.	The replacement of defective domestic water piping within a
dwelling, with piping of equivalent size and quality when the installation does
not exceed 50 feet in length.	6.	The replacement of defective metallic water
service piping with piping of equivalent size, quality and conductivity;	7.	The
removal of existing roofing and the replacement of roofing materials that are in
compliance with CBC Section 1510 and that do not require any alteration to the
roof support system.  (Amended by Ord. No. 180,619, Eff. 5/12/09.)	8.	The
replacement of defective smoke detectors.	9.	The replacement of shower pans with
the same size and capacity.	10.	The installation or replacement of masonry and
concrete fences not exceeding six (6) feet in height.91.108.12.2.  The
employment of a certified licensed contractor by the owner on any work shall not
prohibit the Department from performing inspections of any work described in
Section 91.108.12.1.  The called inspections required by Section 91.108.5 may
be delegated to the certified licensed contractor performing the work by the
Superintendent of Building.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper.
1/1/08.)91.108.12.3.  Department Inspection.  (Amended by Ord. No. 172,592,
Eff. 6/28/99, Oper. 7/1/99.)  The Department may allow the use of the
certification by a certified licensed contractor in lieu of inspections made by
employees of the Department provided there is compliance with all of the
following:	1.	The certified licensed contractor has a valid Certificate of
Registration obtained in accordance with Section 91.1705 of this Code.	2.	The
certified licensed contractor has filed with the Department a Certificate of
Compliance for each installation.	The Certificate of Compliance shall be on a
form provided by the Department and shall be signed by the property owner and
the certified licensed contractor.  The Department may require that the
certified licensed contractor affix a certification label obtained from the
Department on certain types of installations to identify the work certified;	The
Certificate of Compliance shall describe the work performed and state that the
certified licensed contractor warrants, from personal knowledge, that the
materials installed and the work performed are in compliance with approved
manufacturer’s instructions, specifications and applicable requirements of the
Los Angeles Municipal Code.	For the work described in Items 1, 2 and 3 of
Section 91.108.12.1, the phrase “personal knowledge” as used in the
Certificate of Compliance means that the certified licensed contractor has
actual personal knowledge of the facts certified to, or knowledge acquired from
an employee of the certified licensed contractor, which employee provided
continuous observation of the work or installation at the site in all stages of
its progress.	For work set forth in Items 4, 5 and 6 of Section 91.108.12.1, the
phrase “personal knowledge” means the certified licensed contractor has
actual personal knowledge or knowledge acquired from another certified licensed
contractor or a qualified installer.	3.	The Certificate of Compliance processing
fee has been paid in accordance with Section 98.0417 of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code.	4.	The certified licensed contractor has filed the application
for a Certificate of Compliance with the Department within 15 days after
completion of the installation.	The certified licensed contractor has submitted
a report to the Department describing the work the certified licensed contractor
performed and declaring that the work complies with all applicable provisions of
the Los Angeles Municipal Code. The report shall be made on forms supplied by
the Department and shall be filed in the records of the
Department.91.108.12.3.1.  (Deleted by Ord. No. 172,592, Eff. 6/28/99, Oper.
7/1/99.)91.108.12.3.2.  (Deleted by Ord. No. 172,592, Eff. 6/28/99, Oper.
7/1/99.)91.108.12.3.3.  (Deleted by Ord. No. 172,592, Eff. 6/28/99, Oper.
7/1/99.)91.108.12.3.4.  (Deleted by Ord. No. 172,592, Eff. 6/28/99, Oper.
7/1/99.)91.108.12.4.  The certified licensed contractor shall notify the
Department of the certified licensed contractor’s commencement of work for
which the certified licensed contractor has been engaged. This notification
shall be made no later than the last business day preceding the commencement of
work.	The certified licensed contractor shall inspect all materials to be used
or concealed within such work.	While engaged in the work, the certified licensed
contractor shall not undertake or engage in any other task or occupation which
will interfere with the proper performance of the certified licensed
contractor’s duties of inspection. The certified licensed contractor shall
report all violations of this Code which have occurred relating to the
construction work to the Superintendent of Building, and such other information
relating to the installation work as requested by the Superintendent.	The
Department may refuse to issue a Certificate of Compliance if it finds that the
contractor has failed to comply with any of these requirements.91.108.13. 
(Added by Ord. No. 171,455, Eff. 1/30/97.)  Whenever the Department determines
by inspection that construction or grading activities create excessive dust
emissions where the dust remains visible in the atmosphere beyond the property
line of the emission source or constitutes a nuisance or other hazard, the
Department may order that such activity cease or be controlled through watering
practices using reclaimed water if available, or by other means, to the
satisfaction of the Department.  The Department may order the owner of the
property to employ a person, subject to Department approval, to monitor the
watering practices.
