                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PERMITS. (§ 91.106)

  PERMITS.91.106.1.  Required.91.106.1.1.  Building Permits.  No person
shall erect, construct, alter, repair, demolish, remove or move any building or
structure, nor shall any person commence any liquid washing, compressed air
cleaning or steam cleaning of exterior surfaces of any building unless said
person has obtained a permit therefor from the department. A separate permit
shall be obtained for each separate building or structure except that a group of
temporary structures erected on one site for a limited period of time may be
included on one permit.	Where the installation, alteration or repair of
ventilation equipment or ductwork is not included within the scope of a valid
building permit, a separate building permit shall be obtained for the
work.	Sandblasting, liquid washing, compressed air cleaning, steam cleaning of
exterior surfaces of buildings adjacent to and within 20 feet of pedestrian
walkways in dedicated streets in the limits of Fire District No. 1 shall be done
only between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., or on Sundays.	Where
complete plans for a proposed building are filed with the department and where a
foundation only permit is issued with respect thereto in accordance with rules
established by the Superintendent of Building, a building permit may be issued
for the remainder of the building within one year after the issuance of the
foundation only permit, provided the plans and specifications comply with all
applicable Los Angeles Building Code provisions in effect at the time of
issuance of the foundation only permit.  (Amended by Ord. No. 180,619, Eff.
5/12/09.)91.106.1.2.  Grading Permits.  (Amended by Ord. No. 172,592, Eff.
6/28/99, Oper. 7/1/99.)  No person shall commence or perform any grading, and
no person shall import or export any earth materials to or from any grading
site, without first having obtained a permit therefor from the Department.  No
person shall perform any grading within areas designated “hillside” unless a
copy of the permit is in the possession of a responsible person and available at
the site for display upon request.	Any grading project involving more than 100
cubic yards (76.5 m3) of excavation and involving an excavation in excess of 5
feet (1524 mm) in vertical depth at its deepest point measured from the original
ground surface shall be done by a State of California licensed contractor who is
licensed to perform the work described herein.	A separate permit shall be
required for each grading site.  One permit may include the entire grading
operation at that site, however.	EXCEPTION:  All other provisions of the Code
shall apply, but a permit will not be required if the work complies with any one
of the following conditions:	1.	An excavation which (a) is less than 2 feet (610
mm) in depth, or (b) which does not create a cut slope greater than 5 feet (1524
mm) in height and steeper than one unit vertical in two units horizontal (50
percent slope).  This exception shall not apply to cut which exceeds 50 cubic
yards (38.3 m3) or which changes the existing drainage pattern.	2.	A fill less
than one foot (305 mm) in depth and placed on natural terrain with a slope
flatter than one unit vertical in 10 units horizontal (10 percent slope).  This
exception shall not apply when the fill exceeds 50 cubic yards (38.3 m3) or when
the fill changes the existing drainage pattern.	3.	Excavations, located in
hillside areas, for caissons or piles under buildings or structures authorized
by valid building permits.	4.	Excavations, not located in hillside areas, for
basements, footings, caissons, piles, swimming pools or underground structures
which are authorized by valid building permits.	5.	Excavations for wells or
tunnels or utilities, which do not provide vertical or lateral support for
buildings, or adversely impact the safety or stability of private or public
properties.	Grading permits may be waived by the Department for excavations
under buildings or structures in hillside areas, if the applicant can
demonstrate that the site is relatively level, or the excavation is entirely for
footings and/or grade beams not exceeding 5 feet (1524 mm) deep.91.106.1.3. 
Temporary Permits.  Before commencing the construction of any work for
temporary use, a building permit authorizing such work shall be obtained from
the department. Such construction shall be occupied or used only for the period
set forth on the permit application, but shall not exceed 120 days.	Except for
tents and bleachers, application for permit shall be filed at least seven days
prior to the construction, erection or operation of any device, structure, or
any work regulated by this article for temporary use.	All temporary construction
or installations shall be demolished or removed within five days after the
expiration of the Certificate of Occupancy. Requests for inspection must be
received by the department at least two days prior to public use or
occupancy.91.106.2.  EXCEPTIONS:  Permit not required for:	1.	Where the work
regulated by this Code is valued at $500.00 or less, unless it affects the
structural stability of a building, or public safety, or is done to make a
building conform to the requirements of this Code for a change in use or
occupancy.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)	2.	Flag
poles and towers not erected upon a building and not more than 15 feet high. 
Radio and television antennae towers which do not exceed 45 feet in height or
light standards which do not exceed 30 feet in height.	3.	Construction sheds,
state approved construction trailers without toilet facilities and sidewalk
protection barriers and canopies built pursuant to Division 33.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 180,619, Eff. 5/12/09.)	4.	Sandblasting, liquid washing, compressed air
cleaning, steam cleaning of buildings outside of Fire District No. 1 and also
those exterior surfaces of buildings which are located more than 20 feet from
pedestrian walkways in dedicated streets.  Painting, papering and similar work,
provided, however, that the values thereof shall be included as part of the
value of any new construction for which a permit is required by this Code, for
the purpose of determining the amount of the fee to be paid for the permit; and
provided further that this exception does not include operations such as liquid
washing, compressed air cleaning and steam cleaning on the exterior surfaces of
buildings adjacent and within 20 feet of pedestrian walkways in dedicated
streets where these operations extend above the first story.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 180,619, Eff. 5/12/09.)	5.	Platforms, walks and driveways not more than 30
inches (762 mm) above grade and not over any basement or story
below.	6.	Exhibits, booths, partitions and display counters for temporary use
not exceeding 30 days in conjunction with an exhibit or show and not exceeding
12 feet in height above the floor.	7.	Outdoor tents or cloth structures for
temporary use not exceeding 30 days and not exceeding 12 feet in any dimension,
provided such tents are accessory to an indoor or outdoor assembly use on the
site.	8.	Swimming, bathing and wading pools not exceeding 24 inches in depth or
having a surface area not exceeding 250 square feet.	9.	Canopies or awnings
located outside of Fire District No. 1 extending not more than 4 feet from the
exterior wall of the building and attached to Group R Occupancies.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 180,619, Eff. 5/12/09.)	10.	Impact hazard glazing pursuant to Section
91.6101.  (Amended by Ord. No. 180,619, Eff. 5/12/09.)	11.	Work performed by
Certified Licensed Contractors in accordance with Section 91.108.12.1.	12.	Any
work accomplished under the auspices of and owned and controlled by the United
States of America, by the State of California or the Los Angeles
County.	13.	Masonry or concrete fences not over 3-1/2 feet high, and other
fences not over 10 feet high.	14.	Tanks for the storage of combustible liquids,
if resting upon the surface of the ground and surrounded by an impounding basin
conforming to the requirements of Article 7 of Chapter V of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code (Fire Code).	15.	Cases, counters and partitions, not over 5 feet
9 inches high.	16.	Waterproof pointing of joints in masonry or veneer, also
cleaning with detergents which are not injurious to clothing or skin of persons
and are not removed by liquid washing, provided work is done from safely
enclosed scaffolding which will collect any dust, debris or dropped tools and
materials in use.91.106.3.  Permit Applications.91.106.3.1.  Application.  To
obtain a permit, the applicant shall file an application on a form furnished by
the department.	One complete application for each permit shall be filed. Every
such application shall:	1.	Identify and describe the work to be covered by the
permit for which application is made.	2.	Describe the land on which the proposed
work is to be done by legal description, street address or similar description
that will readily identify and definitely locate the proposed building or
work.	3.	Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed work is
intended.	4.	Be accompanied by plans, diagrams, computations and specifications
and other data as required in Section 91.106.3.2.	5.	State the valuation of any
new building or structure or any addition, remodeling or alteration to an
existing building.	6.	Be signed by  the permittee, or an authorized
agent.	7.	Give such other data and information as may be required by the
Superintendent of Building.91.106.3.2.  Plans and
Specifications.91.106.3.2.1.  Site Plat.  A plat of the site shall be filed
with each application for a permit.	EXCEPTION:  The Superintendent of Building
may grant the omission of a site plat when the proposed work is of such a nature
that no information is needed to determine compliance with all laws relating to
the location of buildings or occupancies.	With respect to the site, the plat
shall show the boundaries, lot lines, existing and proposed buildings and
structures, neighboring public ways, and sufficient dimensions and other data to
enable the department to determine compliance with all laws relating to the
location of buildings or occupancies.91.106.3.2.2.  Number of Sets of Plans. 
Each application for a permit shall be accompanied by two sets of plans and
specifications for plan checking.	The number of sets of plans and specifications
submitted with each application for a building permit may comply with the
regulations of Sections 91.107.3.2 and 91.107.3.3 of this Code.	EXCEPTION:  The
Superintendent of Building may waive the requirement for plans and
specifications as required in this article if the superintendent finds that the
information on the application is sufficient to show that the work will conform
to the provisions of this Code  and other relevant laws.91.106.3.2.3. 
Official Stamp.  When the plans and specifications fully comply with the
provisions of Section 91.106.3.3, the Department shall place an official stamp
of approval or an approval perforation on each sheet of each set and, upon
payment of the permit fee, shall issue one set to the applicant.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)91.106.3.2.4.  Validity of
Approval. The stamping or approval of any plans or specifications shall not be
held to permit, or to be an approval of, the violation of any provision of this
Code.91.106.3.2.5.  Alterations to Stamped Plans.  No stamped or approved
plans or specifications shall be altered in any manner, except when and as
approved by the department.91.106.3.2.6.  Stamped Plans on Job.  The stamped
set of plans and specifications issued to the applicant shall be kept at the
site of the construction or work and shall be available to the authorized
representative of the Department.  There shall be no deviation from the stamped
or approved application, plans or specifications without Department
approval.91.106.3.3.  Information  and Certification Required on Plans and
Specifications.91.106.3.3.1.  General.  All plans and specifications submitted
to the department for checking shall be drawn with ink or indelible pencil, or
shall be made by a reproduction process approved by the department. The first
sheet of each set of plans and specifications shall give the street address of
the work and the name and address of the owner of the building.	The plans and
specifications shall be of sufficient clarity to indicate the nature and extent
of the proposed work and to show in detail that it will conform to the
provisions of this Code and of relevant laws, ordinances, rules, regulations and
orders.	Plans for buildings more than two stories in height of other than Group
R, Division 3 and Group U Occupancies shall indicate how required structural and
fire resistive integrity will be maintained where a penetration will be made for
electrical, mechanical, plumbing and communication conduits, pipes and similar
systems.	In lieu of detailed specifications, the department may approve
reference on the plans to a specific section, subsection or paragraph of this
Code or other ordinance or law.	Distances and dimensions on the plans, when
required to show conformity with the provisions of this Code, shall be done in
figures.	When required by Section 91.1704.1.1 of this Code, a statement of
special inspection prepared by the registered engineer or licensed architect
responsible for the design of the project shall be included with the set of
plans.  (Added by Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper.
1/1/08.)91.106.3.3.2.  Written Records of Computations Required.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 174,829, Eff. 10/27/02, Oper. 11/1/02.)  When a structural design is
required for the purpose of obtaining a permit, it shall be justified by a
written record of computations filed with the department and each sheet of the
drawings and written record of computations shall be signed by or bear the
approved stamp of an engineer or architect licensed by the State of California
for the type of service performed.  On structures which do not require an
engineer’s or architect’s signature according to Article 3, Chapter 7,
Division 3, of the California Business and Professions Code, but do require some
structural design, the person responsible for the design shall sign the
calculations and the sheets of the plans with the engineering
details.91.106.3.3.3.  Structural Engineering Plans.  For buildings exceeding
160 feet in height, each sheet of the structural calculations and structural
plans shall be prepared under the supervision of, and shall bear the signature
or approved stamp of, a person authorized to practice structural engineering by
the state of California. In addition, all architectural sheets shall bear the
signature or approved stamp of an architect licensed by the state of
California.91.106.3.3.4.  Yard Restriction.  The increase in area permitted by
CBC Section 506.2 shall not be allowed unless or until the owner of the required
yard and open space files with the Department an agreement binding the owner,
heirs and assignees, to set aside the required yard as an unobstructed space
having no improvements.  This agreement shall be recorded in the Los Angeles
County Recorder’s Office.  (Amended by Ord. No. 180,619, Eff.
5/12/09.)91.106.4.  Permits Issuance.91.106.4.1.  Issuance.  When the
department determines that the information on the application and plans is in
conformance with this Code and other relevant codes and ordinances, the
department shall issue a permit upon receipt of the total
fees.	EXCEPTIONS:	1.	(Amended by Ord. No. 174,829, Eff. 10/27/02, Oper.
11/1/02.)  The department shall have the authority to withhold a permit for any
building if public sewers are not available and the provisions of Article 4,
Chapter IX of the Los Angeles Municipal Code (Plumbing Code) prohibit the use of
a private sewage disposal system on the lot or premises.	Notwithstanding the
provisions of Chapter 7 of the California Plumbing Code as adopted in Section
94.700.0 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code to the contrary, and for any lot or
premises located in whole or in part in the San Fernando Valley and certain
adjacent areas as described in Section 64.26 A.2. of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code:	If public sewers are not available and Article 4 of Chapter IX of this
Code does not prohibit the use of a private sewage disposal system, a building
permit may be issued, provided that:	A.	The owner or owners shall install a
holding tank pursuant to permits from the Department of Building and Safety and
the Fire Department; and	B.	The owner or owners shall submit a covenant and
agreement that runs with the land to provide a connection to the public sewer
when it becomes available, or to vacate the building if no connection is made. 
This covenant and agreement shall be signed by the owner or owners and filed
with the County Recorder; or	C.	The permit is for four or fewer dwelling units
in a residential zone, or for a structure that will not result in the discharge
of wastewater.	2.	(Amended by Ord. No. 172,592, Eff. 6/28/99, Oper. 7/1/99.) 
The Department shall have the authority to withhold permits where the proposed
development is located in an area subject to slides or unstable soil which may
have an adverse effect on the proposed development or access thereto, as
determined by the Department.  If the apparent safety of the proposed
development can be verified pursuant to the provisions of Sections 91.7016.4.2
and 91.7016.4.3 of this Code, the Department shall issue a permit upon receipt
of a sworn affidavit which has been recorded by the County Recorder, stating
that the applicant is fully aware that the proposed development is located in an
area subject to slides or unstable soil which may have an adverse effect on the
proposed development or access thereto.	3.	The department shall have the
authority to withhold a building permit where the proposed building site is an
area subject to inundation, as determined by the department. If it can be shown
by authentic past records that any possible inundation is not likely to be of
such extent as to be an immediate hazard to occupancy of the proposed building,
the department shall issue a building permit upon receipt of a sworn affidavit
which has been recorded by the county recorder stating that said applicant is
fully aware of the department’s finding that the structure is an area subject
to inundation.	4.	The department shall have the authority to withhold permits on
projects located within a Special (Fault) Studies Zone established under Chapter
7.5, Division 2, of the California Public Resources Code. Permits may be issued
if it can be demonstrated through accepted geologic seismic studies that the
proposed structure will be located in a safe manner and not over or astraddle
the trace of an active fault.  Acceptable geologic seismic studies shall meet
the criteria as set forth in rules and regulations established by the
Superintendent of Building to assure that such studies are based on sufficient
geologic data to determine the location or nonexistence of the active fault
trace on a site. Prior to approval of a project, a geologic report defining and
delineating any hazard of surface fault rupture shall be required. If the city
finds that no undue hazard of this kind exists, the geologic report on such
hazard may be waived, with approval of the state geologist.	5.	(Amended by Ord.
No. 181,758, Eff. 8/8/11.)  The department shall have the authority to withhold
a demolition or relocation permit for a residential building composed of two or
more residential rental units under the following circumstances:	A.	When the
applicant states that the purpose for demolition or relocation is to construct a
condominium, stock cooperative or community apartment project, permits shall be
withheld until all necessary tentative tract or preliminary parcel maps for such
new subdivision have been approved by the city.	B.	This Exception 5 shall not
apply if the building is to be demolished and is:	(i)	Constructed of
unreinforced masonry construction and built pursuant to a building permit issued
prior to October l, 1933, or	(ii)	To be demolished pursuant to a demolition
order issued by the department under authority set forth in Division 89 of
Article l of Chapter IX of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.	C.	This Exception 5
shall not apply if the applicant demonstrates to the satisfaction of the
department that the site will be developed with housing for low to moderate
income households, which housing is to be developed, constructed or acquired
with federal, state or local government financial assistance.	D.	This Exception
5 shall not apply to two family dwellings or to apartment houses and apartment
hotels containing three dwelling units, provided that at least one dwelling unit
in each such building is occupied by a record owner of the property.	6.	(Amended
by Ord. No. 175,790, Eff. 3/29/04.)  The Department shall have the authority to
withhold permits on projects located within a Methane Zone or Methane Buffer
Zone established under Sections 91.7101 et seq. of this Code.  Permits may be
issued upon submittal of detailed plans that show adequate protection against
flammable gas incursion by providing the installation of suitable methane
mitigation systems.	7.	The department shall have the authority to withhold
permits for public works capital improvement projects until receipt of written
certification from the Cultural Affairs Department that the board, bureau or
department of the city authorized by law to construct the project has fully
complied with the requirements of the city’s Public Works Improvements Arts
Program. For purposes of this section, public works capital improvement
project” includes any capital project paid for wholly or in part by the City
of Los Angeles or by any board, bureau or department of the city authorized by
the City Charter or other law to construct or remodel any building, structure,
park, utility, street, sidewalk or parking facility, or any other type of
capital project or any portion thereof, within the geographical limits of the
city.	8.	The department shall have the authority to withhold the building permit
where, in the opinion of the Superintendent of Building, the design of a
structure, due to the unusual configuration of the structure or parts of the
structure or assembly of structural materials therein, does not provide at least
the same safeguard against earthquake as provided by the applicable portions of
this Code when applied in the design of a similar structure of customary
configuration.	9.	Reserved.	10.	The department shall have the authority to
withhold a building permit or relocation permit for a site if the department
determines that demolition or relocation work has been done on the site without
the benefit of required demolition or relocation permits. If the department,
after notice and hearing, makes this determination, the department shall also
have the authority to record an affidavit with the County Recorder stating that
no permits for any new development shall be issued on the property for a period
of five years.	11.	(Amended by Ord. No. 181,758, Eff. 8/8/11.)  The Department
shall have the authority to withhold a building permit for a residential
building composed of two or more residential rental units, under the following
circumstances:  	A.	When the applicant states that the purpose for a building
permit is to construct a condominium, stock cooperative or community apartment
project, permits shall be withheld until all necessary tentative tract or
preliminary parcel maps for the new subdivision have been approved by the
city.	12.	The Department of Building and Safety shall have the authority to
withhold building permits for the construction of hotels until a conditional use
permit allowing the sale of liquor has been granted by the Department of City
Planning or until the Department of Building and Safety receives from the
property owner a sworn affidavit, signed by the owner and recorded by the Los
Angeles County recorder, declaring that the hotel shall not sell or serve liquor
on the premises for a period of not less than five years.	13.	The Department of
Building and Safety shall have the authority to withhold grading permits for
developments with disturbed areas of one acre or more unless the applicant is
able to show that a Notice of Intent to comply with the State Construction
Activity Storm Water Permit has been filed with the State Water Resources
Control Board and a Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan has been prepared. 
For the purpose of this section, “disturbed area” shall mean an area altered
as a result of cleaning, grading and/or excavation of earth.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 178,132, Eff. 1/19/07.)	14.	The Department of Building and Safety shall
require applicants, as a condition for issuing a grading or building permit, to
incorporate into the plan documents best management practices necessary to
control stormwater pollution from sediments, erosion, and construction materials
leaving the construction site.  Such requirements shall be in accordance with
the provisions contained in the “Development Best Management Practices
Handbook, Part A Construction Activities” adopted by the Board of Public Works
as authorized by Section 64.72 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code. (Added by Ord.
No. 172,673, Eff. 7/30/99.)	15.	(Amended by Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07,
Oper. 1/1/08.)  The Department of Building and Safety shall have the authority
to withhold grading and/or building permits for developments until:	A.	The
applicant incorporates into the development to the satisfaction of the Bureau of
Sanitation of the Department of Public Works, best management practices
necessary to control stormwater pollution in accordance with the “Development
Best Management Practices Handbook, Part B Planning Activities” adopted by the
Board of Public Works as authorized by LAMC Section 64.72; and	B.	The Bureau of
Sanitation of the Department of Public Works receives a Covenant and Agreement,
signed by the owner and recorded with the Los Angeles County Recorder, declaring
that the best management practices necessary to control stormwater pollution
shall be installed and/or constructed and maintained in proper working condition
at all times; and	C.	The applicant submits to the Bureau of Sanitation of the
Department of Public Works, a set of plans and specifications showing compliance
with the Standard Urban Stormwater Mitigation Plan or Site Specific Mitigation
Plan.	16.	The Department of Building and Safety shall have the authority to
withhold building permits for new development on the site of a destroyed or
demolished Residential Hotel and for the conversion or demolition of Residential
Units on any property identified as a Residential Hotel by the Los Angeles
Housing Department pursuant to Article 7.1 of Chapter IV of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code until the Los Angeles Housing Department has verified compliance
with the provisions of Article 7.1 of Chapter IV of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code in order to preserve Residential Units in the Residential Hotels of the
City of Los Angeles.  (Added by Ord. No. 179,868, Eff. 5/20/08.)91.106.4.2. 
Retention and Maintenance of Approved Plans.91.106.4.2.1.  Retention of 
Plans.  The duplicate plans and specifications of every building or structure
shall be stamped and retained by the department during the life of such
building.	EXCEPTION:  Plans for the following need not be maintained, except
where required by the department:	1.	Single or multiple dwellings in
non-hillside areas which are not part of a common interest development (as
defined in Section 1351(c) of the Civil Code of California), and not more than
two stories and basement in height.	2.	Garages and other structures appurtenant
to buildings described in Item 1 of this exception.	3.	Farm or ranch
buildings.	4.	Any one story building where the span between bearing walls does
not exceed 25 feet. This exception does not, however, apply to a steel frame or
concrete building.	5.	Alterations to commercial buildings, apartments and hotels
which do not require the signature of a licensed civil or structural engineer or
architect.91.106.4.2.2.  Inspection and Reproduction of Retained
Plans.91.106.4.2.2.1.  Inspection of Plans.  The copy of the approved building
plans maintained by the department as provided by Section 91.106.4.2.1 of the
Los Angeles Municipal Code shall be available for inspection only on the
premises of the department.	EXCEPTION:  Plans or portion of plans for banks,
other financial institutions or public utilities which are maintained by the
department may not be inspected without written permission from the owner of the
building.91.106.4.2.2.2.  Reproduction of Plans.  (Amended by Ord. No.
171,185, Eff. 7/22/96.)  Plans maintained by the Department under Subdivision 1
of this subsection may not be duplicated in whole or in part except with the
written permission of the certified, licensed or registered professional or his
or her successor, if any, who signed the original documents, and the written
permission of the original or current owner of the building, or, if the building
is part of a common interest development, with the written permission of the
board of directors or governing body of the association established to manage
the common interest development; or by order of a proper court.  In
implementing this provision, the Department shall comply with the requirements
of Health and Safety Code Section 19851.	The Department shall also furnish the
form of an affidavit to be completed and signed by the person requesting to
duplicate the official copy of the plans, which contains provisions stating all
of the following:	1.	That the copy of the plans shall only be used for the
maintenance, operation, and use of the building.	2.	That drawings are
instruments of professional service and are incomplete without the
interpretation of the certified, licensed, or registered professional of
record.	3.	That Subdivision (a) of Section 5536.25 of the Business and
Professions Code states that a licensed architect who signs plans,
specifications, reports, or documents shall not be responsible for damage caused
by subsequent changes to, or use of, those plans, specifications, reports, or
documents where the subsequent changes or uses, including changes or uses made
by state or local governmental agencies, are not authorized or approved by the
licensed architect who originally signed the plans, specifications, reports, or
documents, provided that the architectural service rendered by the architect who
signed the plans, specifications, reports, or documents was not also a proximate
cause of the damage.	Grading plans which are on file with the Department are
public records and may be duplicated.	The fees specified in the following
provisions 1 or 2 shall be paid by the person requesting duplication of
plans:	1.	Building plans that have not been microfilmed and are authorized for
reproduction, and grading plans that are to be duplicated by other than City
services will be released only to a bonded duplicating service which has posted
a bond for the benefit of the City of Los Angeles in an amount at least equal to
the value of the plans.	The cost of duplicating the plans shall be paid directly
to the duplicating service by the persons requesting duplication.  That person
shall pay a service fee of $15.00 for each set of plans released to a bonded
duplicating service as herein provided.	2.	Building plans that have been
microfilmed and are authorized for reproduction shall be duplicated by City
services.  The Department shall collect an initial service fee of $8.00 for
each request for reproduction of plans plus a fee of $1.00 for each sheet
requested to be photocopied.91.106.4.2.3.  Compliance.  A certified copy of
the microfilmed plans shall constitute compliance with the requirement of this
section.91.106.4.3.  Validity of Permit.91.106.4.3.1.  Limit of
Authorization.  The issuance of a permit is not an approval or an authorization
of the work specified therein. A permit is merely an application for inspection,
the issuance of which entitles the permittee to inspection of the work which is
described therein.	Permits issued under the requirements of this Code shall not
relieve the owner of responsibility for securing required permits for work to be
done which is regulated by any other Code, department or division of the City of
Los Angeles.	All permits are issued subject to the following conditions:	If the
work described by a valid permit is prohibited by a change in the Los Angeles
Municipal Code, then such work may be completed only if the department
determines that both substantial liabilities have been incurred, and substantial
work has been performed on site, in accordance with the terms of that permit.
Work performed and liabilities incurred pursuant to a demolition or relocation
permit shall not be considered in determining whether an owner may complete a
building or structure for which a building permit has been
issued.91.106.4.3.2.  Validity of Other Laws. Neither the issuance of a permit
nor the approval by the department of any document shall constitute an approval
of any violation of any provision of this Code or of any other law or ordinance,
and a permit or other document purporting to give authority to violate any law
shall not be valid with respect thereto.91.106.4.3.3.  Official Grades.  The
applicant shall satisfy himself as to the correctness of proposed structure
elevations and locations with respect to the official grades of public streets
and to the policy of the Board of Public Works relative to the location and
length of curb depressions for driveways.91.106.4.3.4.  Easements.  Before
issuing any permit, the department shall require a declaration, under penalty of
perjury, from the owner or agent having the property owner’s consent stating
that:	“The proposed work will not destroy or unreasonably interfere with any
access or utility easement belonging to others and located on my property, but
in the event such work does destroy or unreasonably interfere with such
easement, a substitute easement(s) satisfactory to the holder(s) of the easement
will be provided.”91.106.4.4.  Expiration, Suspension or
Revocation.91.106.4.4.1.  General.  The regulations concerning the expiration,
suspension and revocation of permits are enumerated in Chapter IX Article 8,
Division 6, of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.91.106.4.4.2.  Making False
Statements to the Department.  Any person who willfully or knowingly, with the
intent to deceive, makes a false statement or representation, or knowingly fails
to disclose a material fact in any documentation required by the department to
ascertain facts relative to this section, to the exception in Section 91.107.2.9
or to Section 91.112 of this Code, including any oral or written evidence
presented, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.91.106.4.4.3.  Unfinished Buildings
or Structures. Whenever the department determines by inspection that work on any
building or structure for which a permit has been issued and the work started
thereon has been suspended for a period of 180 days or more, the owner of the
property upon which such structure is located, or other person or agent in
control of said property, upon receipt of notice in writing from the department
to do so, shall, within 90 days from the date of such written notice, obtain a
new permit to complete the required work and diligently pursue the work to
completion, or shall remove or demolish the building or structure within 180
days from the date of the written notice.91.106.4.5.  Permits for Historical
and Cultural Buildings.  The department shall not issue a permit to demolish,
alter or remove a building or structure of historical, archaeological or
architectural consequence if such building or structure has been officially
designated, or has been determined by state or federal action to be eligible for
designation, on the National Register of Historic Places, or has been included
on the City of Los Angeles list of historic cultural monuments, without the
department having first determined whether the demolition, alteration or removal
may result in the loss of or serious damage to a significant historical or
cultural asset.  If the department determines that such loss or damage may
occur, the applicant shall file an application and pay all fees for the
California Environmental Quality Act Initial Study and Check List, as specified
in Section 19.05 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code. If the Initial Study and
Check List identifies the historical or cultural asset as significant, the
permit shall not be issued without the department first finding that specific
economic, social or other considerations make infeasible the preservation of the
building or structure.91.106.4.6.  Notification and Posting in a Hillside
Grading Area.91.106.4.6.1.  In any area designated as a hillside grading area,
the department shall not issue (1) a building permit for construction of a
building with over 500 square feet of floor area, or (2) a building permit for
any addition to an existing building which adds over 500 square feet of floor
area, or (3) a grading permit for the grading of more than 1,000 cubic yards of
earth materials without having first done the following at least 10 days prior
to issuance of the building or grading permit:	1.	The department shall send
written notices of the permit application, by mail, to the owners of all
property abutting the property at which the construction or grading will occur.
Notices shall also be sent to the owners of all property across the street or
alley when such property is intersected by a projection of the lot lines of the
property at which the construction or grading will occur; and	2.	The department
shall post a notice of the permit application on the property at which the
construction or grading will occur.91.106.4.6.2.  The applicant seeking the
permit shall provide the department with the names and addresses of all persons
entitled to receive notice pursuant to Section 91.106.4.6.1.91.106.4.6.3. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 171,185, Eff. 7/22/96.)  The Department shall collect a
fee in the amount of $60.00 when an application for a building or grading permit
described in Section 91.106.4.6.1 above is filed with the
Department.91.106.4.7.  Curb Ramps.91.106.4.7.1.  Condition of Permits.
Subject to the provisions of Section 91.106.4.7.2, no building or structure
shall be erected or enlarged, and no building permit issued therefor, on any
lot, any part of which is within 100 feet of the straight projection of the
intersection of the building lines of a corner lot of the block within which
subject lot fronts, unless the applicant agrees in writing, and submits the
necessary surety in the form of a bond or cash deposit, to construct a corner
curb ramp at such corner and in addition, if such lot is within 100 feet of two
such intersections to construct corner curb ramps at each of the two adjacent
corners at both intersections, for a total of two ramps. The curb ramp shall
comply with the standards contained in Part 2 of Title 24 of the California Code
of Regulations. Such improvements procedure shall, in all respects, be in
compliance with Section 12.37D of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.	EXCEPTIONS: 
This section does not apply to the following:	1.	One  or two family dwelling or
addition thereto located in a tract, parcel map or subdivision recorded prior to
the effective date of this section.	2.	A building or structure or addition
thereto of less than 500 square feet in gross floor area or when such building,
structure or addition thereto contains a restaurant or fast food restaurant of
less than 200 square feet in gross floor area.	3.	Where sidewalks are neither
currently installed nor required by the city as a condition of development, at
either the location of the proposed development or the location of the otherwise
proposed curb ramp.91.106.4.7.2.  It is hereby determined that the requirements
of Section 91.106.4.7.1 hereof shall be imposed as a condition to the erection
of any structure or addition thereto wherein handicapped access is otherwise
required.91.106.4.8.  Construction Site Notice.  (Added by Ord. No. 178,048,
Eff. 12/24/06.)91.106.4.8.1.  Contents.  Any person who obtains the following
types of permits  shall post a notice, as described below, at the construction
site:	1.	Permit for new structures, except signs,	2.	Permit for additions to
existing buildings,	3.	Change of use or occupancy permit,	4.	Demolition
permit,	5.	Relocation permit,	6.	Swimming pool permit, or	7.	Grading permit.	The
notice shall be on a form entitled “Construction Site Notice” provided by
the Department and shall include the following information:  job site address,
permit number, name and phone number of the contractor and owner or owner’s
agent, hours of construction allowed by code or any discretionary approval for
the site, and City telephone numbers where violations can be
reported.91.106.4.8.2.  Location.  The notice shall be posted and maintained
at the construction site and displayed in a location that is readily visible to
the public and approved by the Department.91.106.4.8.3.  Maintenance of
Notice.  The notice shall be displayed after issuance of the permit and prior
to the start of construction.  The notice shall be displayed continuously
during the process of construction until all the work authorized by the permit
is inspected and approved by the Department.  All contact information on the
notice, including telephone numbers, shall be correct and maintained current. 
Failure to display this notice may result in withholding of inspections by the
Department.
