                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

VIOLATIONS. (§ 91.103)

  VIOLATIONS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 172,592, Eff. 6/28/99, Oper. 7/1/99.)91.103.1. 
General.  No person shall construct, alter, repair, demolish, remove, move,
use, occupy or maintain, within the City, any building or structure or any
portion thereof, except as provided by this Code.	No person shall grade,
excavate or fill any land except as provided by this Code.	The permissive
provisions of this Code shall not be presumed to waive any limitations imposed
by other statutes or ordinances of the state or City.	All of the provisions of
this Code shall be limitations for safeguarding life, limb, health, property and
public welfare.	If two or more pertinent limitations are not identical, those
limitations shall prevail which provide the greater safety to life or limb,
health, property or public welfare.91.103.2.  Violation of a Building or
Grading Permit.  Every person who knowingly and willfully procures a building
and/or grading permit without the consent of the owner of record of the property
for which the permit is issued, or such person’s agent, is guilty of a
misdemeanor.	EXCEPTION:  This subsection shall not apply to building and/or
grading permits obtained pursuant to and in compliance with an order of a court
of law or a governmental agency.91.103.3.  Violation of an Order.  No person
shall fail to comply with any valid order issued pursuant to any provision or
requirement of this Code.91.103.4.  Making False Statements to the
Department.  It shall be unlawful for any person, authorized by the Department
to perform inspections, to make a false or misleading statement, or
misrepresentation in any writing submitted to the Department.	For purposes of
this section a “person authorized by the Department to perform inspections”
is any person who is a registered deputy inspector, a structural inspector, a
certified welder or a certified licensed contractor.  The term “writing”
shall include, but is not limited to, forms, applications, approvals, reports or
certifications required by the Department.	Every violation of this section is
punishable as a misdemeanor.
