                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PROTECTION OF ADJOINING PROPERTY. (§ 91.3307)

  PROTECTION OF ADJOINING PROPERTY.	Sections 3307.1, 3307.2 and 3307.3 of the
CBC are not adopted and in lieu, Sections 91.3307.1, 91.3307.2, 91.3307.2.1,
91.3307.2.2, 91.3307.3, 91.3307.3.1 and 91.3307.3.2 are added.91.3307.1. 
Protection Required.  Adjoining public and private property shall be protected
from damage during construction, remodeling and demolition work.  Protection
must be provided for footings, foundations, party walls, chimneys, skylights and
roofs.  Provisions shall be made to control water runoff and erosion during
construction or demolition activities.	For excavations, adjacent property shall
be protected as set forth in Section 832 of the Civil Code of California.	Prior
to the issuance of any permit, which authorizes an excavation where the
excavation is to be of a greater depth than are the walls or foundation of any
adjoining building or structure and located closer to the property line than the
depth of the excavation, the owner of the site shall provide the Department of
Building and Safety with evidence that the adjacent property owner or owners
have been given a 30-day written notice of the intent to excavate.  This notice
shall state the depth to which the excavation is intended to be made and when
the excavation will commence.  This notice shall be by certified mail, return
receipt requested.91.3307.2.  Underpinning.91.3307.2.1.  General.  In
constructing underpinning, all portions of the structure shall be supported so
that no structural material is stressed beyond the yield point.91.3307.2.2. 
Closure.  All spaces between the existing footing and the underpinning shall be
packed full of mortar conforming to the provisions of CBC Section 2103 and
having no slump when tested by the method specified in ASTM C 143.91.3307.3. 
Temporary Excavations and Shoring.91.3307.3.1.  General.  Excavations shall
not remove the lateral support from a public way, from an adjacent property or
from an existing structure.  For the purpose of this section, the lateral
support shall be considered to have been removed when any of the following
conditions exist:	1.	The excavation exposes any adverse geological formations,
which would affect the lateral support of a public way, an adjacent property or
an adjacent structure.	2.	The excavation extends below a plane extending
downward at an angle of 45 degrees from the edge of the public way or an
adjacent property.	EXCEPTION:  Normal footing excavations not exceeding two
feet in depth will not be construed as removing lateral support.	3.	The
excavation extends below a plane extending downward at an angle of 45 degrees
from the bottom of a footing of an existing structure.91.3307.3.2.  Removal of
Lateral Support.  Approval of the Department of Public Works shall be obtained
prior to the issuance of a permit for any excavation that would remove the
lateral support from a public way.	The slopes of excavations adjacent to an
existing structure, an adjacent property or public way may exceed one horizontal
to one vertical where either:	1.	A soil report recommending that the slope may
be in excess of one to one has been approved by the Department and the
Department of Public Works when the excavation is adjacent to a public way.	When
justified by the soils engineer, the Department may approve the use of the
proposed building and/or shoring to support an adjacent structure on an
adjoining property in lieu of underpinning, provided:	(i)	Evidence is submitted
that the adjoining property owner has been notified in advance of the proposed
excavation in compliance with Section 832 of the Civil Code of
California.	(ii)	The owner of the site records a sworn affidavit with the Office
of the County Recorder, which will inform future owners of the site that the
lateral support of a portion of the building footings on the adjoining property
is provided by the subterranean walls of the building on the
site.	2.	Underpinning is designed to support adjacent structures, temporary
shoring is designed to support the excavation, and plans are approved and
permits are issued by the Department.	Temporary shoring shall be designed for an
earth pressure equivalent to that exerted by a fluid weighing not less than 30
pounds per cubic foot plus all surcharge loads or as recommended by a soils
engineer and approved by the Department.	Soils bearing values shall be those
specified in Division 18 of this Code or those recommended by a soils engineer
and approved by the Department.	The design of the required temporary shoring and
necessary underpinning shall include a sequence of construction and
installation. 	Allowable stresses used in the design of temporary shoring may
be increased 33-1/3 percent for structural and reinforcing steel and 25% for
wood.  No increase will be permitted for concrete. Other values shall be those
prescribed by the Code.
