                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SWINGING DOORS. (§ 91.6709)

  SWINGING DOORS.
	(Added by Ord. No. 171,175, Eff. 7/25/96.)91.6709.1.  Swinging wood doors
which are openable from the inside without the use of a key shall be of one of
the following constructions or shall be of a construction having equivalent
forced entry resistance:	1.	Solid core doors not less than 1-3/8 inches in
thickness.	2.	Wood panel type door with panels fabricated of lumber not less
than 9/16–inch thickness, provided shaped portions of the panels are not less
than 1/4-inch thick.  Individual panels shall not exceed 300 square inches in
area.  Stiles and rails shall be of solid lumber with overall dimensions of not
less than 1-3/8 inches in thickness and three inches in width.  Mullions shall
be considered a part of adjacent panels unless sized as required herein for
stiles and rails, except mullions not over 18 inches long may have an overall
width of not less than two inches.  Carved areas shall have a thickness of not
less than 3/8-inches.  Dimensional tolerances published in recognized industry
standards may be utilized.	3.	Hollow core doors or doors less than 1-3/8 inches
in thickness either of which are covered on the inside face with 16 gauge sheet
metal attached with screws at six inches maximum centers around the perimeter. 
Glazing in doors shall be as set forth in Section 91.6713.91.6709.2.  A single
swinging door the active leaf of a pair of doors, and the bottom leaf of Dutch
doors shall be equipped with a deadbolt and deadlocking latch.  The deadbolt
and latch may be activated by one lock or by individual locks.  Deadbolts shall
contain hardened inserts to repel cutting tools.  The lock or locks shall be
key-operated from the exterior side of the door and openable from the interior
side by a device which does not require a key, special knowledge, or special
effort to operate.	EXCEPTIONS:	1.	The latch may be omitted from doors in Group
B, F, M, S Occupancies.	2.	In other than residential buildings, locks may be key
operated on the inside when not prohibited by the provisions of Division
10.	3.	A swinging door greater than five feet in width may be secured as set
forth in Section 91.6711.	A straight deadbolt shall have a minimum throw of one
inch and an embedment of not less than 5/8 inch into the holding device
receiving the projected bolt.  A hook-shaped or an expanding-lug deadbolt shall
have a minimum throw of 3/4-inch.  All deadbolts of locks which automatically
activate two or more deadbolts shall embed at least 1/2-inch into the holding
devices receiving the projected bolts.91.6709.3.  The inactive leaf of a pair
of doors and the upper leaf of Dutch doors shall be equipped with a deadbolt or
deadbolts as set forth in Section 91.6709.2.	EXCEPTIONS:	1.	The deadbolt or
bolts need not be key operated, but shall not be otherwise activated from the
exterior side of the door.	2.	The deadbolt or bolts may be engaged or disengaged
automatically with the deadbolt or by another device on either the active leaf
or the lower leaf.	3.	Manually operated hardened bolts at the top and bottom of
the leaf which embed a minimum of 1/2-inch into the receiving device may be used
when not prohibited by Division 10.91.6709.4.  Door stops of in-swinging doors
shall be of one-piece construction with the jamb, or joined by rabbet to the
jamb.91.6709.5.  All pin-type hinges which are accessible from outside the
secured area when the door is closed shall have non-removable hinge pins.  In
addition, such hinges shall have jamb studs which project through both hinge
leaves and prevent removal of the door if the pin is removed from the hinge.
Jamb studs shall be not less than 1/4-inch-diameter steel and shall project into
the door and jamb not less than 1/4 inch.	EXCEPTION:  Jamb studs are not
required for hinges which are shaped to prevent removal of the door if the hinge
pin is removed.91.6709.6.  Cylinder guards shall be installed on all mortise or
rim-type cylinder locks whenever the cylinder projects beyond the face of the
door or is otherwise accessible to gripping tools.91.6709.7.  In wood
construction, the metal strike plate for latches shall be secured to the jamb
with screws and the holding device for projecting dead bolts shall be secured to
the jamb and wall framing with at least two screws not less than 2-1/2 inches
(64 mm) in length which penetrate the wall framing.  In aluminum construction,
the strike plate and dead bolt holding device shall be secured in an area of
reinforced heavy gage jamb material.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,858, Eff.
1/23/98.)
