                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

TESTS – GENERAL. (§ 91.6717)

  TESTS – GENERAL.
	(Added by Ord. No. 171,175, Eff. 7/25/96.)	Doors, windows, and similar closures
of security openings regulated by the provisions of this division, including the
frames, jambs, hardware and locking devices of such closures, shall be shown to
satisfactorily pass the tests specified in this division. The tests shall be
performed by an approved testing laboratory on the units as installed at the
jobsite or installed in test assemblies constructed according to the
manufacturer’s details.  Each typical job installation shall be tested or the
units shall be constructed and installed in conformance to a General Approval
issued by the Department.91.6717.1.  Sliding Glass Doors.  Panels shall be
closed and locked.  Tests shall be performed in the following order:	1.	Test
A.  With the panels in the normal position, a concentrated load of 300 pounds
shall be applied separately to each vertical pull stile incorporating a locking
device at a point on the stile within six inches of the locking device in the
direction parallel to the plane of glass that would tend to open the
door.	2.	Test B.  Repeat Test A while simultaneously adding a concentrated load
of 150 pounds to the same area of the same stile in a direction perpendicular to
the plane of glass toward the interior side of the door.	3.	Test C.  Repeat
Test B with 150–pound force in the reverse direction toward the exterior side
of the door.	4.	Tests D, E and F.  Repeat Tests A, B and C with the movable
panel lifted upwards to its full limit within the confines of the door
frame.	5.	Moveable panels shall not be rendered easily openable or removable
from the frame during or after the tests or the panel shall have failed the
test.91.6717.2.  Sliding Glass Windows.  Sash shall be closed and locked. 
Tests shall be performed in the following order:	1.	Test A.  With the sliding
sash in the normal position, a concentrated load of 150 pounds shall be applied
separately to each sash member incorporating a locking device at a point on the
sash member within six inches of the locking device in the direction parallel to
the plane of glass that would tend to open the window.	2.	Test B.  Repeat Test
A while simultaneously adding a concentrated load of 75 pounds to the same area
of the same sash member in the direction perpendicular to the plane of glass
toward the interior side of the window.	3.	Test C.  Repeat Test B with the
75–pound force in the reversed direction toward the exterior side of the
window.	4.	Tests D, E and F.  Repeat Tests A, B and C with the movable sash
lifted upwards to its full limit within the confines of the window
frame.	5.	Movable panels shall not be rendered easily openable or removable from
the frame during or after the tests or the panel shall have failed the test.
