                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

EXISTING SIGNS. (§ 91.6216)

  EXISTING SIGNS.91.6216.1. Existing Sign Rights.  Every existing sign and/or
sign support structure constructed under a valid permit and used in conformance
with these regulations and Department approvals in effect at the time of
construction shall be allowed to continue to exist under those regulations and
approvals even though subsequent adopted regulations and approvals have changed
the requirements.91.6216.2. Maintenance of   Every sign and/or sign support
structure shall be maintained in conformity with the requirements of this
division and Chapter I of the LAMC.91.6216.3. Illegal Signs, Construction and
Use.  Every existing sign and/or sign support structure or portion of a sign
and/or sign support structure constructed without a valid building permit shall
be made to conform to the current provisions of this Code or shall be demolished
and removed.  Any use of an existing sign constructed without a valid building
permit shall be discontinued.91.6216.4. Alterations, Repairs or
Rehabilitation.91.6216.4.1. Alterations, repairs or rehabilitation of any
existing sign and/or support structure may be of the same type of construction
as the existing sign or sign support structure provided:	1.	The aggregate value
of the work in any one year does not exceed ten percent of the replacement cost
of both the sign and sign support structure; and	2.	That there is no increase in
sign area or height and no change in the location or orientation of the
sign.91.6216.4.2. Alterations, repairs or rehabilitation of existing sign and/or
sign support structures in excess of ten percent of the replacement cost of both
the sign and sign support structure may be made provided:	1.	That the cost of
the work does not exceed 50 percent of the replacement cost of both the sign and
sign support structure; and	2.	That there is no increase in the sign area or
height and no change in the location or orientation of the sign; and	3.	All new
construction shall be as required for a new sign of the same type.91.6216.4.3.
Alterations, repairs or rehabilitation of existing sign and/or sign support
structures that exceed 50 percent of the replacement cost of both the sign and
sign support structure shall comply with all the requirements of this
Code.91.6216.5. Additions.  Existing signs and/or sign support structures with
additions or alterations that increase the sign area or height or which change
the location or orientation of the sign shall comply with all of the
requirements of this Code.
