                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. (§ 91.6302)

  FOOD ESTABLISHMENT.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 171,175, Eff. 7/25/96.)91.6302.1.  General.  This
section shall apply to every building or portion thereof appropriated to the
processing, storage or sale of food or drink for human consumption, but not
including any private dwelling.  Every food establishment shall conform to the
requirements of this Code.	EXCEPTIONS:	1.	Food establishments that are used
exclusively for the sale of farm produce sold at or on the premises where
produced.	2.	Food preparation units installed in school buildings with the
following provisions:	A.	A sign must be posted requiring all mouth utensils to
be of single-use, disposable type.	B.	The floor surface of the area must be of
linoleum, asphalt tile, or equivalent nonabsorbent material.	C.	A
residential-type vent must be installed when a residential kitchen range is
provided.	3.	Employee lunch rooms if no food other than beverages is prepared on
the premises, and provided all mouth utensils are of the disposable type. 
Heating devices limited to this use need not be vented.	4.	Food establishments
in which all food is to be sold in sealed packages, and in which there is to be
no preparing or packaging of food, shall comply with all applicable food
establishment regulations.  The Certificate of Occupancy shall state
“Packaged Food Only.”91.6302.2.  Ceiling Heights.  Every room shall have a
ceiling height of not less than eight feet between the finished floor and the
finished ceiling.	EXCEPTIONS:	1.	Toilet rooms may have a ceiling height of not
less than seven feet six inches.	2.	Refrigerated cold storage rooms are exempted
from this ceiling height requirement.91.6302.3. Special Ventilation.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 181,758, Eff. 8/8/11.)  A mechanical exhaust ventilation system
capable of effectively removing cooking odors, smoke, steam, grease and vapors
shall be provided at or above cooking equipment such as ranges, griddles, ovens,
deep fat fryers, barbecues and rotisseries.	All hoods, ducts, fans and other
devices provided to ventilate the cooking areas of commercial food preparation
equipment in commercial food establishments shall be installed as required by
and in compliance with the provisions of the Los Angeles Mechanical Code. 
Rooms in which exhaust systems are installed shall be provided with acceptable
air inlets to admit at least as much air as is exhausted by these systems.	Ducts
penetrating a ceiling or floor shall be enclosed in a shaft enclosure conforming
to the requirements of CBC Section 708.  Where a shaft enclosure is not
required by CBC Section 708, ducts that convey grease vapors shall be enclosed
in a one-hour fire-resistive shaft.  The shaft shall be separated from the duct
by a minimum three-inch air space vented to the outside air.91.6302.4.  Toilet
Rooms and Vestibules.   Toilet rooms and vestibules for public or employees
shall conform to the following standards:	1.	Toilet Rooms Required.  At least
one toilet room shall be provided for every food establishment.  Adequate
separate toilet facilities for each sex shall be provided where the number of
employees is four or more.  In or immediately adjacent to every toilet room
required hereunder there shall be installed one-half as many lavatories as there
are water closets and urinals.  Each lavatory shall be equipped with running
hot and cold water.	Each place of business selling beer, wine, or liquor to be
consumed on the premises shall be provided with separate toilet rooms for each
sex, which also are readily available to the customers and patrons.  These
toilet rooms shall contain at least one water closet and lavatory, and at least
one urinal for men.	2.	Location.  Toilet rooms shall be located on the premises
of the food establishment. Toilet rooms for public use shall be readily
accessible to customers.  Toilet rooms shall be separated from other portions
of the establishment by a tight-fitting, self-closing door.	Additional
lavatories or equivalent hand-washing facilities shall be provided in all food
preparation areas where the lavatories required in Item 1 are not conveniently
located on the same floor and in or adjacent to the food preparation
areas.	3.	Privacy.  Toilet rooms shall be so arranged or equipped with view
screens as to protect users of toilets and urinals from view from outside the
room when the door to the toilet room is open.  Entrances to the toilet rooms
for different sexes shall be properly separated by a space of at least 10 feet
or by view screens.	4.	Dimensions.  Toilet rooms shall have dimensions and area
as required in Division 11.91.6302.5.  Dressing Rooms. (Amended by Ord. No.
181,758, Eff. 8/8/11.)  A room enclosure or designated area, separated from
toilets, food storage, food preparation areas, and utensil washing areas, shall
be provided where employees may change and store clothes.  No employee shall
store clothing or personal effects in any other area on the premises.	Where
there are five or more operators, a room shall be provided where operators may
change and store their outer garments. Such room shall be provided with
self-closing doors and shall be separated from toilet rooms, food storage rooms
or food preparation areas.  No person shall dress or undress or store his/her
clothing in any room other than as provided herein.  Clothes changing rooms
shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary conditions.	EXCEPTION:  Individual
lockers to store clothes will be accepted in lieu of dressing facilities where
there are fewer than five employees on any shift and provided the plan layout is
approved by the Los Angeles County Health Department.91.6302.6.  Garbage
Rooms.  Restaurants with a seating capacity of 50 or more patrons shall be
provided with a room or enclosed space for the keeping of garbage containers. 
The room shall have portland cement plaster, fireclay tile, ceramic tile or
equally durable waterproof walls to a height of at least six feet above the
floor.  Doors and windows of such rooms shall be tight fitting and self-closing
and all exterior openings shall be screened.  Each such room shall be equipped
with a hose or other suitable garbage can washing device connected to hot and
cold running water and the floor shall slope to a drain and comply the
requirements of the Los Angeles County Health Department.	EXCEPTION:  Such
garbage rooms need not be provided at places maintaining an approved device for
discharging garbage to the sewer system.91.6302.7.  Rat Protection.  Every
food establishment shall be completely surrounded by a continuous exterior
foundation wall not less than 12 inches below grade.
