                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

FILLS. (§ 91.7011)

  FILLS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 171,939, Eff. 4/15/98.)91.7011.1. Height.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)  No fill slope shall exceed a
vertical height of 100 feet (30 480 mm) unless horizontal benches with a minimum
width of 20 feet (6096 mm), as shown in Figure D are installed at each 100 feet
(30 480 mm) of vertical height.91.7011.2.  Slope.  (Amended by Ord. No.
171,939, Eff. 4/15/98.)  No fill shall be made which creates an exposed surface
steeper than one unit vertical in two units horizontal (50% slope).  The fill
slopes abutting and above public property shall be so placed that no portion of
the fill lies above a plane through a public property line extending upward at a
slope of one unit vertical in two units horizontal (50% slope).	EXCEPTION:  The
Department or the Board in case an appeal is made to it under Section 91.105 may
permit a fill to be made which creates an exposed surface steeper in slope than
one unit vertical in two units horizontal (50% slope), provided:	1.	The use of
the steeper slope is determined to be necessary due to special design
limitations on the site,	2.	The gradient does not exceed one unit vertical in
one and one-half units horizontal (66.7% slope) and	3.	The applicant shows
through investigation, subsurface exploration, analysis and report by both a
soils engineer and an engineering geologist, to the Department’s satisfaction,
that the fill to be used and the underlying bedrock or soil supporting the fill
have strength characteristics sufficient to produce a stable slope with a
minimum factor of safety not less than 1.5 for static loads.  The soils
engineer shall verify by necessary testing and observation and shall certify
attainment of the required strength characteristics in the fill materials as
specified in the approved report.91.7011.3. Compaction.  (Amended by Ord. No.
180,619, Eff. 5/12/09.)  All manufactured fills shall be placed on natural
undisturbed material or approved compacted fill.  shall be compacted throughout
their full extent to a minimum relative compaction of 90 percent of maximum dry
density within 40 feet (1219 mm) below finish grade and 93 percent of maximum
dry density deeper than 40 feet (1219mm) below finish grade, unless a lower
relative compaction (not less than 90 percent of maximum dry density) is
justified by the soils engineer.  The relative compaction shall be determined
by ASTM soil compaction test D1557.  Every manufactured fill shall be tested
for relative compaction by a soil testing agency approved by the Department.  A
compaction report including a Certificate of Compliance setting forth densities
so determined shall be submitted to the Department for review before approval of
any fill is given.  For slopes to be constructed with an exposed slope surface
steeper than two horizontal to one vertical, compaction at the exposed surface
of the slope shall be obtained either by overfilling and cutting back the slope
surface until the compacted inner core is exposed, or by compacting the outer
horizontal ten feet of the slope at least 92 percent of relative
compaction.	Prior to permitting building on deep fills of 40 feet or more, the
Department may require the determination of the settlement characteristics of
the fills to establish that any movements have substantially ceased.  In those
cases, a system of benchmarks shall be installed at critical points on the fill
and accurate measurement of both horizontal and vertical movements shall be
taken for a period of time sufficient to define the settlement behavior.  In no
case shall the period of time be less than one year, with at least four
consecutive checks made at intervals of three months.	EXCEPTIONS:	1.	The
Department may approve uncompacted fill in self-contained areas where the fills
are not to be used to support buildings or structures and no hazard will be
created.	2.	Fill material placed in areas within cemeteries used or to be used
for internment sites shall be compacted to a minimum of 80 percent, unless the
fill is placed on a slope steeper than three horizontal to one vertical, or
placed on slopes adjacent to public properties or private properties in separate
ownership, or is to be used to support buildings or structures, in which cases
it shall be compacted to a minimum of 90 percent.	3.	Compaction report is not
required for gravel backfill behind retaining walls provided the following
conditions are met:	A.	The retaining wall does not exceed ten feet in
height.	B.	The maximum distance between the retaining wall and the backcut shall
not exceed 24 inches.	C.	The gravel backfill shall be mechanically compacted and
covered with concrete pavement or be capped with a 24-inch thick soil blanket
mechanically compacted to the Department’s satisfaction.	D.	The gravel
backfill does not provide vertical or lateral support for any structures or
adverse bedding planes.	Where cohesionless soil having less than 15 percent
finer than 0.005 millimeters is used for fill, it shall be compacted to a
minimum of 95 percent relative compaction based on maximum dry density.	At
cut-fill transition zones, there shall be a minimum of 3 feet (914 mm) of
compacted fill at the cut pad area.  The depth of fill shall be measured from
the bottom of the deepest footings and extend horizontally throughout the cut
pad area under the building and extend a minimum of 3 feet (914 mm) beyond
exterior footings.91.7011.4.  Fill Slopes.  Fill slopes shall be prepared for
planting in one of the following three ways:	1.	The slope surface of fills may
be prepared for planting by casting topsoil over the slope surface.  The
topsoil layer shall not exceed three inches (76 mm) in depth.	2.	The slope
surface may be scarified to a depth not to exceed three inches (76 mm).	3.	Loose
material not to exceed three inches (76 mm) in depth may be left on the
slope.91.7011.5.  Toe of Fill Slope.  The toe of fill slope shall be made not
nearer to a site boundary line adjoining other private properties than one half
the height of the fill slope with a minimum of two feet (610 mm) and a maximum
of 20 feet (6096 mm).	In the event retaining walls are constructed to retain
fill, the height of the fill shall be measured from the elevation of the fill
behind the wall and the setback distance may be measured from the face of the
wall to the boundary line.	Setback dimensions shall be horizontal distances
measured perpendicular to the site boundary.  Setback dimensions shall be as
shown in Figure E.91.7011.6.  Old Fills.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,324, Eff.
12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)  All manufactured fills, whether compacted or not,
which were placed prior to April 25, 1963, shall be investigated by the soils
engineer to determine their suitability for the proposed use before any approval
to build is issued.91.7011.7.  Combined Cut and Fill Slopes.  Where a combined
cut and fill slope exceeds 25 feet (7620 mm) in height, the required drainage
bench shall be placed at the top of the cut slope.  The effect of surcharge of
the fill upon the cut bedrock shall be considered by the soils engineer and
engineering geologist, and specific recommendations shall be made relative to
the setback between the cut and fill.91.7011.8.  Fill Areas.  Areas on which
fill is to be placed shall be investigated by the soils engineer, or by the
soils engineer and geologist to determine if they are adequate to support the
fill without undue detrimental consolidation.  Slopes exceeding one unit
vertical in five units horizontal (20% slope) shall be benched prior to placing
fill.	EXCEPTION:  The Department may waive this investigation where it
determines by inspection that the underlying material is adequate to support the
proposed fill.
