                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEFINITIONS. (§ 91.7102)

  DEFINITIONS.	For the purpose of this division, certain words and phrases are
defined as follows:	Alarm System shall mean a group of interacting elements
consisting of components and circuits arranged to monitor and annunciate the
status of gas concentration levels or supervisory signal-initiating devices and
to initiate the appropriate response to those signals.	Buildings with Raised
Floor Construction shall mean a building with the bottom of the floor system
raised above grade where the clearance for each of the following items shall be
at least:  12 inches for the girder, 18 inches for the floor joist and 24
inches for the structural floors.	Cable or Conduit Seal Fitting shall mean an
approved fitting provided in a cable or conduit system to prevent the passage of
gases, vapors, or flames through electrical cable or conduit.	Design Methane
Concentration shall mean the highest concentration of methane gas found during
site testing.	Design Methane Pressure shall mean the highest pressure of methane
gas found during site testing.	De-watering System shall mean a permanent water
removal system, consisting of perforated pipes, gravel, sump pumps and pits,
designed to permanently maintain the ground water level one foot below the
sub-slab vent system.	Gas Detection System shall mean one or more electrical
devices that measure the methane gas concentration and communicate the
information to the occupants, building management, central station or alarm
company with audible or visual signals.	Gravel Blanket shall mean a layer of
gravel, sand, or approved material designed to transmit gas to the vent riser
without obstructing the venting system.	Impervious Membrane shall mean a
continuous gas barrier made of material approved by the Department and installed
beneath a building for the purpose of impeding methane migration to the interior
of the building.
	Mechanical Extraction System shall mean a system operated by a machine which is
designed to remove methane gas from below the impervious membrane through the
use of fans, blowers, or other powered devices.	Mechanical Ventilation shall
mean a fan, blower or other similar group of interacting elements operated by a
machine within the building, which introduce and/or remove air from an enclosed
space.	Narrow Building shall mean a building that has a width less than 50 feet,
a footprint of less than 50,000 square feet and having a minimum 2-foot wide
landscaped area immediately adjacent to the exterior wall for at least 50
percent of the perimeter of the building.	Oil Well shall mean a deep hole or
shaft sunk into the earth for the exploration of oil or gas; or which is on
lands producing or reasonably presumed to contain oil or gas; or which is
drilled for the purpose of injecting fluids or gas for stimulating oil recovery,
re-pressurizing or pressure maintenance of oil or gas, or disposing of waste
fluids from an oil or gas field.	Perforated Horizontal Pipe shall mean an
approved pipe which contains a series of small holes or narrow openings placed
equidistant along the length of the approved pipe, which is placed horizontally
beneath the foundation of a building, for the purpose of venting accumulated
methane gas and preventing the development of elevated gas pressures, or for
drainage of ground water to an approved location.	PPMV shall mean Parts per
Million by Volume.	Pressure Sensor (Deleted by Ord. No. 180,619, Eff.
5/12/09.)	Single Station Gas Detector shall mean a device consisting of
electrical components capable of measuring methane gas concentration and
initiating an alarm.	Trench Dam shall mean an approved subsurface barrier
installed within a furrow or ditch adjacent to the foundation of a building, for
the purpose of preventing the migration of methane gas beneath that
foundation.	Unobstructed Opening shall mean a permanent clearing or gap in the
walls, floors or roof-ceiling assemblies without windows, doors, skylights or
other solid barriers that may restrict the flow of air.	Vent Riser shall mean an
approved pipe which is placed vertically  with joints and fittings connected to
Perforated Horizontal Pipes to convey and discharge the gas to the atmosphere.
