                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

GENERAL. (§ 91.7201)

  GENERAL.91.7201.1 Fire District No. 1 Boundaries.  Fire District No. 1 shall
include:	I.	Downtown.  All of the territory bounded by the following streets or
freeways:	1.	Harbor Freeway from the Santa Monica Freeway to the Santa Ana
Freeway;	2.	Santa Ana Freeway from the Harbor Freeway to Alameda
Street;	3.	Alameda Street from the Santa Ana Freeway to Fourth Street;	4.	Fourth
Street from Alameda Street to Central Avenue;	5.	Central Avenue from Fourth
Street to the Santa Monica Freeway; and	6.	Santa Monica Freeway from Central
Avenue to the Harbor Freeway.	II.	Hollywood.  All of the territory bounded by
the following streets:	1.	Yucca Street from Highland Avenue to Gower
Street;	2.	Gower Street from Yucca Street to De Longpre Avenue;	3.	De Longpre
Avenue from Gower Street to Vine Street;	4.	Vine Street from De Longpre Avenue
to Fountain Avenue;	5.	Fountain Avenue from Vine Street to Wilcox
Avenue;	6.	Wilcox Avenue from Fountain Avenue to Sunset Boulevard;	7.	Sunset
Boulevard from Wilcox Avenue to Highland Avenue;	8.	Highland Avenue from Sunset
Boulevard to Hollywood Boulevard;	9.	Hollywood Boulevard from Highland Avenue to
Orchid Avenue;	10.	Orchid Avenue from Hollywood Boulevard to Franklin
Avenue;	11.	Franklin Avenue from Orchid Avenue to Highland Avenue;	12.	Highland
Avenue from Franklin Avenue to Yucca Street;	13.	All of the territory within 100
feet of Hollywood Boulevard between Hillhurst Avenue and La Brea Avenue;
and,	14.	All of the territory within 100 feet of Sunset Boulevard between
Hillhurst Avenue and the city boundary line 190 feet west of Havenhurst
Drive.	III.  Wilshire.  All of the territory bounded by the following
streets:	1.	Sixth Street from Western Avenue to Commonwealth
Avenue;	2.	Commonwealth Avenue from Sixth Street to Wilshire
Boulevard;	3.	Wilshire Boulevard from Commonwealth Avenue to Catalina
Street;	4.	Catalina Street from Wilshire Boulevard to Eighth Street;	5.	Eighth
Street from Catalina Street to Mariposa Avenue;	6.	Mariposa Avenue from Eighth
Street to Seventh Street;	7.	Seventh Street from Mariposa Avenue to Ardmore
Avenue;	8.	Ardmore Avenue from Seventh Street to Wilshire Boulevard;	9.	Wilshire
Boulevard from Ardmore Avenue to Western Avenue;	10.	Western Avenue from
Wilshire Boulevard to Sixth Street; and	11.	All of the territory within 100 feet
of Wilshire Boulevard between the eastern city boundaries of the City of Beverly
Hills and the Harbor Freeway, with the exception of the territory within 100
feet of Wilshire Boulevard located between Wilton Place and Highland
Avenue.	IV.	Beverly Fairfax. All of the territory bounded by the following
streets:	1.	Beverly Boulevard from Fairfax Avenue to a point 120 feet west of
Gardner Avenue;	2.	A line 120 feet west of and parallel to Gardner Avenue from
Beverly Boulevard to Third Street;	3.	Third Street from a point 120 feet west of
Gardner Avenue to Fairfax Avenue; and	4.	Fairfax Avenue from Third Street to
Beverly Boulevard.	V.	Crenshaw. All of the territory bounded by the following
streets:
	1.	Crenshaw Boulevard from Thirty-ninth Street to Stocker Street;	2.	Stocker
Street from Crenshaw Boulevard to Rosalia Drive;	3.	Rosalia Drive from Stocker
Street to Marlton Avenue;	4.	Marlton Avenue from Rosalia Drive to Thirty-ninth
Street; and	5.	Thirty-ninth Street from Marlton Avenue to Crenshaw
Boulevard.	VI.	Century City. All of the territory bounded by the following
streets:	1.	Santa Monica Boulevard between Century Park West and the westerly
city boundary of the City of Beverly Hills;	2.	The westerly city boundary of the
City of Beverly Hills from Santa Monica Boulevard to Olympic
Boulevard;	3.	Olympic Boulevard from the westerly city boundary of the City of
Beverly Hills to Century Park West; and	4.	Century Park West from Olympic
Boulevard to Santa Monica Boulevard.	Excepting that portion of the
above-described territory described as follows:	Beginning at the point of
intersection of the center line of Olympic Boulevard and Century Park West,
thence northwesterly along center line of Century Park West 791 feet, thence
N50o 29’00&#038;″ E822.21 feet, thence S39o 29’13&#038;″ E9.63 feet,
thence S84o 29’13&#038;″ E29.59 feet, thence N50o 30’47&#038;″ E19.00
feet, thence S39o 29’13&#038;″ E295.17 feet, thence S35 38’00&#038;″ E
to the center line of Olympic Boulevard thence southwesterly along said center
line to the point of beginning.	VII.  Westwood. All of the territory bounded by
the following streets:	1.	Le Conte Avenue from Levering Avenue to Tiverton
Avenue;	2.	Tiverton Avenue from Le Conte Avenue to the intersection of Lindbrook
Drive and Glendon Avenue;	3.	Glendon Avenue from the intersection of Lindbrook
Drive and Tiverton Avenue to Wilshire Boulevard;	4.	Wilshire Boulevard from
Glendon Avenue to Gayley Avenue;	5.	Gayley Avenue from Wilshire Boulevard to the
alley 200 feet north of Wilshire Boulevard;	6.	The alley directly west of Gayley
Avenue from a point 200 feet north of Wilshire Boulevard and Weyburn
Avenue;	7.	Weyburn Avenue from the alley west of Gayley Avenue to Gayley
Avenue;	8.	Gayley Avenue from Weyburn Avenue to Levering Avenue;	9.	Levering
Avenue from Gayley Avenue to Le Conte Avenue; and	10.	All of the territory
within 100 feet of Wilshire Boulevard between Veteran Avenue and the westerly
city limits of the City of Beverly Hills; and	11.	All of the territory within
100 feet of Wilshire Boulevard between Centinela Avenue and Federal
Avenue.	VIII.  Van Nuys. All of the territory bounded by the following
streets:	1.	Vesper Avenue from Calvert Street to Victory Boulevard;	2.	Victory
Boulevard from Vesper Avenue to Sylmar Avenue;	3.	Sylmar Avenue from Victory
Boulevard to Calvert Street;	4.	Calvert Street from Sylmar Avenue to Vesper
Avenue; and	5.	All of the territory within 100 feet of Van Nuys Boulevard
between Victory Boulevard and Sherman Way.	IX.	Venice.  All of the territory
bounded by the following streets:	1.	Horizon Avenue from Ocean Front Walk to
Pacific Avenue;	2.	Pacific Avenue from Horizon Avenue to Eighteenth
Avenue;	3.	Eighteenth Avenue from Pacific Avenue to Ocean Front Walk;
and	4.	Ocean Front Walk from Eighteenth Avenue to Horizon Avenue.	X.	San Pedro.
All of the territory bounded by the following streets:	1.	Fourth Street from
Pacific Avenue to Harbor Boulevard;	2.	Harbor Boulevard from Fourth Street to
Seventh Street;	3.	Seventh Street from Harbor Boulevard to Beacon
Street;	4.	Beacon Street from Seventh Street to Eighth Street;	5.	Eighth Street
from Beacon Street to Pacific Avenue; and	6.	Pacific Avenue from Eighth Street
to Fourth Street.	Excepting that portion of the above-described territory
described as follows:	Beginning at the point of intersection of the easterly
line of Mesa Street and the southerly line of Fourth Street; thence southerly
along said easterly line of Mesa Street to the northerly line of the alley
running parallel to said Fourth Street and distant 155 feet southerly of the
center line of said Fourth Street; thence along the northerly line of said alley
to a point 498 feet from the easterly line of said Mesa Street; thence south 10
feet and thence easterly to the westerly line of Centre Street; thence northerly
along said westerly line to the southerly line of said Fourth Street; thence
westerly along said southerly line to the point of beginning.91.7201.2.  Very
High Fire Hazard Severity Zone.  The Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zone shall
be considered a Fire District.  The Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zone shall
be all of the territory so designated by the boundaries shown on the Very High
Fire Hazard Severity Zone Map as established in Los Angeles Municipal Code
Section 57.25.01 and adopted by the City Council.  (Amended by Ord. No.
180,619, Eff. 5/12/09.)91.7201.3.  Buildings Overlapping Fire District
Boundaries.  (Renumbered and Amended by Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper.
1/1/08.)  Every building or structure having any part of the building within a
fire district shall be deemed to be entirely in that fire district.	A building
or structure located partly within two or more fire districts shall comply
throughout with the more restrictive provisions of each fire district.
