                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SAFETY PRECAUTIONS DURING GRADING. (§ 91.7007)

  SAFETY PRECAUTIONS DURING GRADING.
	(Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 171,175, Eff. 7/25/96.)	If at any stage
of work on an excavation or fill the Department determines that further work as
authorized by an existing permit is likely to endanger any property or public
way, the Department may require as a condition to allow the work to continue
that plans for such work be amended to include adequate safety precautions.
Safety precautions may include, but shall not be limited to, specifying a
flatter exposed slope or construction of additional drainage facilities, berms,
terracing, compaction, cribbing, retaining walls or buttress fills, slough
walls, desilting basins, check dams, benching wire mesh and guniting, rock
fences revetments or diversion walls.	No person shall excavate or fill so as to
cause falling rocks, soil or debris in any form to fall, roll, slide or flow
onto adjoining properties.91.7007.1.  Restriction of Work During Rainy
Season.  (Amended by Ord. No. 172,592, Eff. 6/28/99, Oper. 7/1/99.)  The
period between October 1 and April 15 is hereby determined to be the period in
which heavy rainfall normally occurs in the City of Los Angeles and is declared
to be the “rainy season”.  During this period no grading work in excess of
200 cubic yards (153 m3) shall be commenced on any single grading site under
permit until an erosion control system has been approved and it has been
demonstrated to the Department’s satisfaction that such grading work will not
endanger life, limb, health, property or public welfare.	Whenever it appears
that repair work to rectify substandard conditions and any grading project
previously commenced pursuant to a permit issued by the Department will not be
completed prior to the commencement of the rainy season, the Department may
order and the permittee shall install temporary erosion control devices to
protect the persons and property near such project.  In addition, the Board of
Public Works may direct the permittee to comply with the provisions of Section
61.02 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.	All hillside property owners or their
agents shall submit erosion control plans to their district grading inspectors
prior to October 1 for grading projects within unfinished grading work in excess
of 200 cubic yards (153 m3) and sites with substandard conditions, unless
specifically exempted by the grading inspectors.91.7007.2.  Duration of Work. 
No person shall conduct any grading excavation or filling, including the export
or import of earth material, between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on any
day nor on Sunday at any time, except in emergencies as provided in Section
91.7005.4.
