                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PROFESSIONAL INSPECTION AND CERTIFICATION FOR ENGINEERED GRADING. (§ 91.7008)

  PROFESSIONAL INSPECTION AND CERTIFICATION FOR ENGINEERED GRADING.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 171,939, Eff. 4/15/98.)	Grading operations, as indicated
in Section 91.108.9, for which a permit is required shall be subject to
inspection by the Department.  Professional inspection of grading operations
shall be provided by the civil engineer, soils engineer and the engineering
geologist retained to provide such services in accordance with Section 91.7008.6
for engineered grading and as required by the Department for regular
grading.91.7008.1.  Civil Engineer.  The civil engineer shall provide
professional inspection within such engineer’s area of technical specialty,
which shall consist of observation and review as to the establishment of line,
grade and surface drainage of the development area.  If revised plans are
required during the course of the work, they shall be prepared by the civil
engineer.	Upon completion of hillside tract grading, grading work in excess of
5,000 cubic yards (3825 m3) of either cut or fill, or a combination thereof, and
other grading work if deemed warranted by the Department, the civil engineer or
land surveyor responsible for the design shall submit a dated as-graded plan to
the Department for approval of all work covered by the grading permit(s) and
shall include the following:	l.	The plan shall be no more than one-inch equals
40 feet scale (25 mm equals 12 192 mm scale)and shall show the locations of
streets, pads, slopes, structures, pertinent elevations, original contours and
finished elevations, and other pertinent information required to accurately show
the as-graded condition.	2.	The plan shall bear the signature of the design
civil engineer or land surveyor which shall certify he or she has inspected the
site, prepared the as-graded plans and that the work within his or her area of
responsibility was done in accordance with the final approved grading
plan.91.7008.2.  Soils Engineer.  The soils engineer shall provide
professional inspection within such engineer’s area of technical specialty,
which shall include observation during grading and testing for required
compaction.  The soils engineer shall provide sufficient observation during the
preparation of the natural ground and placement and compaction of the fill to
verify that such work is being performed in accordance with the conditions of
the approved plan and the appropriate requirements of this division.  Revised
recommendations relating to conditions differing from the approved soils
engineering and engineering geology reports shall be submitted to the owner, the
Department and the civil engineer.	The soils engineer, at the completion of
hillside tract grading, grading work in excess of 5,000 cubic yards (3825 m3) of
either cut or fill, or a combination thereof, and other grading work if deemed
warranted by the Department, shall submit a final report.  The final report
shall include:	1.	His or her professional opinion of the suitability of the fill
material and their placement, and the ability of the natural materials to
support the compacted fill without excessive settlement of the fill or potential
damage to structures erected thereon;	2.	The results of all in-place density
tests;	3.	A statement that all subdrains were inspected prior to backfill;	4.	A
statement to the effect that the soils engineers has inspected all cuts and
fills and that in his or her opinion they meet the design requirements;
and	5.	All locations of the in-place density tests, retaining walls, subdrains
and cut/fill slopes shall be shown on a plot plan which may be referenced to a
dated as-graded plan prepared by the design civil engineer or land
surveyor.91.7008.3.  Engineering Geologist.  The engineering geologist shall
provide professional inspection within such engineer’s area of technical
specialty, which shall include professional inspection of the bedrock excavation
to determine if conditions encountered are in conformance with the approved
report.  Revised recommendations relating to conditions differing from the
approved engineering geology report shall be submitted to the soils engineer and
the Department.	For hillside tract grading, grading work in excess of 5,000
cubic yards (3825 m3) of either cut or fill, or a combination thereof, and other
grading work if deemed warranted by the Department, geologists shall submit
periodic in-grading inspection reports at intervals determined by the
Department.  In addition, the engineering geologist at the completion of
grading shall submit a final geological report stating he or she had maintained
the required in-grading inspection, the recommendations of his or her pregrading
report(s) have been followed, that in his or her professional opinion all known
adverse geologic conditions have been corrected or provided for, future adverse
geologic conditions are not anticipated, and all lots or sites are geologically
suitable and safe for construction.	The final report shall include the
geologist’s certification that he or she has inspected all cut slopes and
sidehill fill placement areas prior to placement of fill.  The engineering
geologist shall also certify that all subdrain placement areas were inspected
prior to installation of the subdrains.  The final report shall be referenced
to a dated as-graded plan prepared by the design civil engineer or land
surveyor.91.7008.4.  Grading Contractor.  For hillside tract grading, grading
work in excess of 5,000 cubic yards (3825 m3) of either cut or fill, or a
combination thereof, and other grading work if deemed warranted by the
Department, the grading contractor shall submit in a form prescribed by the
Superintendent of Building a statement of conformance to said as-built plan and
the specifications.91.7008.5.  Transfer of Responsibility.  If, for any
reason, the civil engineer, the soils engineer, or the engineering geologist of
record is terminated during the progress of the grading work, he or she and the
owner shall immediately notify the Department in writing.	Such transfer of
responsibility may result in temporary delays in the grading operations until
satisfactory arrangements are made to assure the Department that competent
professional supervision is provided.  The new professional(s) shall submit to
the Department a letter of responsibility that the previous professional’s
designs, reports and recommendations have been reviewed and all provisions of
the Department required as conditions of the grading permit will be complied
with during the course of the work.91.7008.6.  Owner.  The owner shall be
responsible for the work to be performed in accordance with the approved plans
and specifications and in conformance with the provisions of this Code, and the
owner shall engage consultants, if required, to provide professional inspections
on a timely basis.  The owner shall provide a registered deputy grading
inspector as required by Section 91.1701.  The owner shall act as a coordinator
between the consultants, the contractor and the Superintendent of Building.  In
the event of changed conditions, the owner shall be responsible for informing
the Superintendent of Building of such change and shall provide revised plans
for approval.  The Department may require the submittal of a supplemental soils
and/or geological report justifying such change.91.7008.7.  Notification of
Noncompliance.  If, in the course of fulfilling their respective duties under
this division, the civil engineer, the soils engineer or the engineering
geologist finds that the work is not being done in conformance with this
division or the approved grading plans, the discrepancies shall be reported
immediately in writing to the owner and to the Superintendent of Building.
