                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEFINITIONS. (§ 91.7003)

  DEFINITIONS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 171,939, Eff. 4/15/98.)	For the purposes of this division
the definitions listed hereunder shall be construed as specified in this
section.	APPROVAL shall mean the proposed work or completed work conforms to
this division to the satisfaction of the Superintendent of Building.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)	AS-GRADED is the extent of
surface conditions on completion of grading.	BEDROCK is in-place solid
rock.	BENCH is a relatively level step excavated into earth material on which
fill is to be placed.	BORROW is earth material acquired from an on-site or
off-site location for use in grading on a site.	CIVIL ENGINEER is a professional
engineer registered in the state to practice in the field of civil engineering
works.	CIVIL ENGINEERING is the application of the knowledge of the forces of
nature, principles of mechanics and the properties of materials to the
evaluation, design and construction of civil works.	COMPACTION is the
densification of a fill by mechanical means.	EARTH MATERIAL is any rock, natural
soil, fill, or combination thereof.	ENGINEERING GEOLOGIST is a geologist duly
licensed by the State of California and experienced and knowledgeable in
engineering geology.	ENGINEERING GEOLOGY is the application of geologic
knowledge and principles in the investigation and evaluation of naturally
occurring rock and soil for use in the design of civil engineering
works.	EROSION is the wearing away of the ground surface as a result of the
movement of wind, water or ice.	EXCAVATION is the mechanical removal of earth
material.	FILL is a deposit of earth material placed by artificial
means.	GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEER.  See “soils engineer.”	GRADE is the vertical
location of the ground surface.	Existing Grade is the grade prior to
grading.	Finish Grade is the final grade of the site which conforms to the
approved plan.	Rough Grade is the stage at which the grade approximately
conforms to the approved plan.	GRADING is any excavating or filling or
combination thereof.	HILLSIDE AREAS shall mean any land designated as a Hillside
Area based on the latest Bureau of Engineering Basic Grid Map No. A-13372 and
made part of this section.BASIC GRID MAP
No. A-13372
(Added by Ord. No. 129,885, Eff. 4/19/65.)	[Editor’s Note:  The map referred
to in this section is on file in the official City documents located in the
Office of the City Clerk in Council File No. 121222 Sup. #1.]	KEY is a designed
compacted fill placed in a trench excavated in earth material beneath the toe of
a proposed fill slope.	PROFESSIONAL INSPECTION is the inspection required by
this Code to be performed by the civil engineer, soils engineer or engineering
geologist.  Such inspections include that performed by persons supervised by
such engineers or geologists and shall be sufficient to form an opinion relating
to the conduct of the work.	ROCK is any consolidated or coherent and relatively
hard natural formed mass of mineral material.	SEEPAGE is the flow of water
through earth material caused by gravitational forces.  (Amended by Ord. No.
179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)	SITE is any lot or parcel of land or
contiguous combination thereof, under the same ownership, where grading is
performed or permitted.	SLOPE is an inclined ground surface the inclination of
which is expressed as a ratio of horizontal distance to vertical distance. 
Slope greater than 10% shall be considered as a sloping surface.	SLOPE FAILURE,
Class I, shall involve bedrock, and a combined geologic and geotechnical report
need to be submitted to address its cause and to provide recommended repair
methods.	SLOPE FAILURE, Class II, shall involve soil, and a geotechnical report
needs to be submitted to address its cause and to provide recommended repair
methods.	SLOPE FAILURE, Class III, shall involve surficial problems, and unless
determined as necessary by Inspection, neither a geologic nor a geotechnical
report is required prior to the repair.	SOIL is naturally occurring superficial
deposits overlying bedrock.	SOILS ENGINEER (GEOTECHNICAL ENGINEER) shall mean a
civil engineer duly licensed by the State of California who is experienced in
the application of the principles of soil mechanics in the investigation,
evaluation and design of civil works involving the use of earth materials. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 181,758, Eff. 8/8/11.)	SOILS ENGINEERING (GEOTECHNICAL
ENGINEERING) is the application of the principles of soils mechanics in the
investigation, evaluation and design of civil engineering works involving the
use of earth materials and the inspection or testing of the construction
thereof.	TERRACE is a relatively level step constructed in the face of a graded
slope surface for drainage and maintenance purposes.
