                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

GENERAL METHANE REQUIREMENTS. (§ 91.7104)

  GENERAL METHANE REQUIREMENTS.91.7104.1.  Site Testing.  Site testing of
subsurface geological formations shall be conducted in accordance with the
Methane Mitigation Standards.  The site testing shall be conducted under the
supervision of a licensed Architect or registered Engineer or Geologist and
shall be performed by a testing agency approved by the Department.	The licensed
Architect, registered Engineer or Geologist shall indicate in a report to the
Department, the testing procedure, the testing instruments used to measure the
concentration and pressure of the methane gas.  The measurements of the
concentration and pressure of the methane gas shall be used to determine the
Design Methane Concentration and the Design Methane Pressure.  The Design
Methane Concentration and the Design Methane Pressure shall determine the Site
Design Level of Table 71.	EXCEPTION:  Site testing is not required for
buildings designed to the requirements of Site Design Level V as described in
Table 71, or for buildings designed using the exceptions set forth in Sections
91.7104.3.2 or 91.7104.3.3.91.7104.2.  Methane Mitigation Systems.  All
buildings located in the Methane Zone and Methane Buffer Zone shall provide a
methane mitigation system as required by Table 71 based on the appropriate Site
Design Level.  The Superintendent of Building may approve an equivalent methane
mitigation system designed by an Architect, Engineer or Geologist.	Table 71
prescribes the minimum methane mitigation systems, such as, the passive, active
and miscellaneous systems, depending on the concentration and pressure of the
methane present at the site.  Each component of the passive, active and
miscellaneous systems shall be constructed of an approved material and shall be
installed in accordance with the Methane Mitigation Standards.91.7104.2.1. 
Passive System.  The passive system is a methane mitigation system installed
beneath or near the building.  The components of the passive system may consist
of a de-watering system, the sub-slab vent system, and impervious membrane. 
The sub-slab vent system shall consist of Perforated Horizontal Pipes, Vent
Risers, and Gravel Blankets for the purpose of collecting and conveying methane
from the soil underneath the building to the atmosphere.91.7104.2.1.1. 
De-watering System.  The de-watering system is used to lower the ground water
table to a level more than 12 inches below the bottom of the Perforated
Horizontal Pipes.  The de-watering system shall conduct ground water to an
approved location.91.7104.2.2.  Active System.  The components of the active
system shall consist of one or more of the following, sub-slab system, gas
detection system, mechanical ventilation, alarm system and control panel.  All
components shall be constructed of an approved material, installed in accordance
with the Methane Mitigation Standards.91.7104.2.3.  Miscellaneous System.  The
components of the miscellaneous system may consist of Trench Dam, Cable or
Conduit Seal Fitting, or Additional Vent Risers.  The component of the
miscellaneous system shall be a material approved by the Department and shall be
installed in accordance with the Methane Mitigation Standards. 91.7104.3. 
Exceptions to Table 71.  The provisions of this section are exceptions to the
construction requirements of Table 71.91.7104.3.1.  (Repealed by Ord. No.
180,619, Eff. 5/12/09.)91.7104.3.2.  Buildings with Raised Floor
Construction.  If a Building with Raised Floor Construction has underfloor
ventilation construction in accordance with the standards below, then the
utilities shall be installed with Trench Dams and Cable or Conduit Seal Fittings
and a four inch thick gravel blanket shall be installed under and around the
elevator pits.	Underfloor ventilation shall be provided by an approved
mechanical ventilation system capable of exhausting underfloor air an equivalent
of every 20 minutes, or by openings in the underfloor area complying with the
following:	A.	The top of the openings shall be located not more than 12 inches
below the bottom of the floor joists.	B.	The openings shall be distributed
approximately equally and located to provide cross ventilation, for example, by
locating the opening along the length of at least two opposite sides of the
building.	C.	The openings shall be the larger of:	1.	Openings of not less than
1.5 square feet for each 25 linear feet or fraction of exterior wall;
or	2.	Openings shall be equal to 1 percent of underfloor area.	D.	The openings
may be covered with corrosion-resistant wire mesh with mesh openings of greater
than ¼ inch and less than ½ inch in dimension.91.7104.3.3.  Buildings with
Natural Ventilation.  A building with natural ventilation is a building
constructed with the following:	A.	The Unobstructed Openings shall exchange
outside air.	B.	The size of the Unobstructed Opening shall be the larger
of:	1.	Opening equal to at least 25 percent of the total perimeter wall area of
the lowest level of the building, or	2.	Opening equal to at least 25 percent of
the floor area of the lowest level of the building.	C.	The Unobstructed Openings
shall be evenly distributed and located within the upper portion of at least two
opposite exterior walls of the lowest level of the building.  	Buildings with
natural ventilation that are constructed as described above, shall have the
utilities constructed with Trench Dams and Cable or Conduit Seal Fittings.  If
there is an enclosed room or space less than 150 square feet within the
building, then the enclosed room or space shall be constructed with vent
openings that comply with the requirements of Section 91.7104.3.4.91.7104.3.4. 
Enclosed Room or Space within Building.  Individual enclosed rooms or enclosed
spaces with floor area less than 2,000 square feet may be exempt from providing
the Active System as required by Table 71, provided the vent openings comply
with all of the following:	1.	Vent openings are Unobstructed Openings, except
screens made with at least ¼ inch mesh or wind driven turbines on the roof
shall be permitted.	2.	The aggregate size of vent openings shall be the larger
of either five percent of the total floor area of the room or the area of
enclosed space, or ten percent of the area of walls on the perimeter of the room
or enclosed space.	3.	The vent openings shall be located to prevent the
accumulation of methane gases within the room or enclosed space.	4.	The top of
the vent opening shall be located not more than 12 inches below roof joists or
ceiling joists if located in a wall of a building. 	5.	The vent openings shall
be located on either two opposite walls or two adjacent walls of the room or
enclosed space if located in a wall of a building.	6.	The vent openings shall be
located no more than 50 feet from any point within the room or enclosed
space.	7.	When using wind driven turbine, the area of the vent opening shall be
calculated by the area of the opening at the attachment of the wind driven
turbine at the roof.	8.	When the vent opening is located in a wall of an
adjoining room, then the adjoining room shall be constructed of either an Active
System, or have Natural Ventilation as described in Section
91.7104.3.3.91.7104.3.5.  Single Family Dwelling.  (Amended by Ord. No.
180,619, Eff. 5/12/09.)  Single Family Dwellings and buildings accessory to
single family dwellings shall comply with all the Methane Mitigation
requirements of Table 71, except that the following mitigation system may be
substituted:	A.	Single Station Gas Detectors with battery back-up may be
installed in lieu of Alarm System and Gas Detection System; or	B.	6 mil thick
Visquene may be used in lieu of Impervious Membrane, when the Site Design Levels
are I or II; or	C.	Additional Vent Risers or Mechanical Ventilation may be
omitted for buildings with width less than 50 feet and footprint less than 6,000
square feet in area; or	D.	Vent Risers may be substituted in lieu of Mechanical
Extraction System, provided the Vent Risers are designed at a rate twice that
established by the Methane Mitigation Standards.91.7104.3.6.  Buildings Located
in the Methane Buffer Zone.  A building, located entirely or partially in the
Methane Buffer Zone, shall be designed to the requirements of the Methane Buffer
Zone.  Buildings located in the Methane Buffer Zone shall not be required to
provide any methane mitigation system, if the Design Methane Pressure is less
than or equal to two inches of water pressure and is either of the
following:	A.	Areas which qualify as Site Design Level I or II; or	B.	Areas
which qualify as Site Design Level III and the utilities are installed with
Trench Dams and Cable or Conduit Seal Fitting.91.7104.3.7.  De-watering
System.  A De-watering system is not required for either of the following:  
		
	A.	If during the site testing, the groundwater level is deeper than 10 feet
below the Perforated Horizontal Pipes, or	B.	If the soil investigation or
analysis, as approved by the Department, reveals the  groundwater level is more
than 12 inches below the bottom of the Perforated Horizontal
Pipes.91.7104.3.8.  Buildings Located in the First Phase Playa Vista Project. 
The First Phase Playa Vista project, as approved by the City on September 21,
1993 and December 8, 1995, shall comply with the methane mitigation program as
required by the Department pursuant to the Methane Prevention, Detection and
Monitoring Program approved by the Department on January 31, 2001, in lieu of
the requirements of this division.91.7104.4.  Paved Areas.  Paved areas that
are over 5,000 square feet in area and within 15 feet of the exterior wall of a
commercial, industrial, institutional or residential building, shall be vented
in accordance with the Methane Mitigation Standards.	EXCEPTION:  Paved areas
located in the Methane Buffer Zone and which qualify for Site Design Levels I,
II or III.
