                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO ISSUING A GRADING PERMIT. (§ 91.7006)

  CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO ISSUING A GRADING PERMIT.
	(Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 171,175, Eff. 7/25/96.)91.7006.1. 
Plans and Specifications.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,939, Eff. 4/15/98.) 
Application for a grading permit shall be accompanied by plans and
specifications prepared and signed by an individual licensed by the State to
prepare such documents.  Plans shall be drawn to appropriate scale upon
substantial paper or cloth and shall be of sufficient clarity to indicate the
nature and extent of the work proposed and show in detail that they will conform
to the provisions of this Code and all relevant laws, ordinances, rules and
regulations.	The first sheet of each set of plans shall give location of the
work, the name and address of the owner and the person by whom they were
prepared.	The plans shall include, but not be limited to, the following
information:	1.	General vicinity of the proposed site.	2.	Property limits and
accurate contours of existing ground and details of terrain and area
drainage.	3.	Limiting dimensions, elevations or finish contours to be achieved
by the grading, and proposed drainage channels and related
construction.	4.	Detailed plans of all surface and subsurface drainage devices,
walls, cribbing, dams and other protective devices to be constructed with, or as
a part of, the proposed work together with a map showing the drainage area and
the estimated runoff of the area served by any drains.	5.	Location of any
buildings or structures on the property where the work is to be performed and
the location of any buildings or structures on land of adjacent owners which are
within 15 feet (4572 mm) of the property or which may be affected by the
proposed grading operations.	6.	The location of the top and toe of all cuts and
fills, the location of all “daylight” lines, the amount of cut and fill, the
location of disposal site for excess material, if known, and the estimated dates
for starting and completing grading work.	7.	When reports are required pursuant
to Section 91.7006.2, recommendations included in the approved soils engineering
report and engineering geology report shall be incorporated into the grading
plans.  A copy of the soils report, geological report, and Department letter
approving such reports shall be attached to the approved set of grading plans
and kept at the job site.	8.	When reports are required pursuant to Section
91.7006.2, the dates of the soils engineering and engineering geology reports
together with the names, addresses and phone numbers of the firms or individuals
who prepared the reports shall be incorporated in the grading plans.	The
Department may require some plans to be prepared by a licensed surveyor when the
property location and its limits are not clear.  Portions of the aforementioned
plan requirements may be waived by the Department if it finds that the
information on the application and/or submitted plans is sufficient to show that
the work will conform to the provisions of this Code and other relevant
laws.91.7006.2.  Report Requirement.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,758, Eff.
8/8/11.)  Reports shall be submitted to the Department for review and approval
in, but not limited to, the following circumstances:	1.	Soils and/or geological
reports are required when they are stipulated in a Grading Preinspection Report
prepared in accordance with Section 91.107.3.2 of this Code.	2.	Soils and
geological reports are required for all grading work in excess of 5,000 cubic
yards (3825 m3) of cut or fill, or a combination thereof.	3.	Soils reports are
required when the design of the foundations does not conform to the requirements
of Division 18 of this article.	4.	Soils and/or geological reports may be
required when previously unknown adverse soils or geologic conditions are
revealed during construction.	5.	Soils and/or geological reports may be required
to evaluate liquefaction, slope instability and surface ground rupture resulting
from earthquake motions in accordance with CBC Section 1802.	The Superintendent
of Building may require a geotechnical investigation in accordance with CBC
Section 1802.2 to address the potential of liquefaction when, during the course
of an investigation, all of the following conditions are discovered:	1.	Shallow
ground water, 50 feet (15240 mm) or less.	2. 	Unconsolidated sandy
alluvium.91.7006.3.  Report Content.91.7006.3.1.  Soils Engineering Report. 
The soils engineering report required by Section 91.7006.2 shall include data
regarding the nature, distribution and strength of existing soils, conclusions
and recommendations for grading procedures and design criteria for corrective
measures, including buttress fills, when necessary, and opinion on adequacy for
the intended use of sites to be developed by the proposed grading as affected by
soils engineering factors, including the stability of slopes.91.7006.3.2. 
Engineering Geology Report.  The engineering geology report required by Section
91.7006.2 shall include an adequate description of the geology of the site,
conclusions and recommendations regarding the effect of geologic conditions on
the proposed development, and opinion on the adequacy for the intended use of
sites to be developed by the proposed grading, as affected by geologic
factors.	In addition, all soils engineering and engineering geology reports for
grading work in hillside areas  shall also comply with rules and standards
established by the Department.91.7006.4.  Hillside Exploratory Work.  Surface
and subsurface exploratory work shall be performed by a soils engineer and an
engineering geologist on all hillside grading work.  This exploratory work
shall conform to the rules and regulations for hillside exploratory work
established by the general manager of the Department.  The Department may waive
this requirement when it determines from the application and site conditions
that the proposed grading will conform to the provisions of the Code.	No person
shall conduct any grading operation for the access of exploration equipment
unless the Department has approved a plan signed by the soils engineer and/or
geologist showing the extent of access grading and how the site is to be
restored after exploration. 91.7006.5.  Bonds in Hillside Areas Required. 
The Superintendent of Building may require bonds in such form and amounts as may
be deemed necessary to assure that the work, if not completed in accordance with
the approved plans and specifications, will be corrected to eliminate hazardous
conditions.91.7006.5.1.  Surety Bond.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,939, Eff.
4/15/98.)  Before a permit is issued for excavation or fill of 250 cubic yards
(191.3 m3) or more of earth in a hillside area, the owner of the property shall
file with the Department a bond for the benefit of the city.  The bond shall be
executed by the owner and a corporate surety authorized to do business in this
state as a surety in an amount sufficient to cover the entire
project.	EXCEPTION.  Upon application by the owner, the Department may waive
this requirement if:	1.	The proposed grading is neither actually nor potentially
hazardous;	2.	The grading work performed is in compliance with a Department
order; or	3.	The applicant can substantiate, to the satisfaction of the
Department, that the work under a grading permit will be fully
executed.91.7006.5.2.  Cash Bond.  In lieu of a surety bond, the owner may
file a cash bond with the Department on the same terms and conditions and in an
amount equal to that which would be required in the surety bond.  The deposit
may be in the form of negotiable United States securities in lieu of
cash.91.7006.5.3.  Application of Bond to Adjacent Property.  Where grading is
required on property adjacent to the grading site under permit in order to
complete a project satisfactorily, the owner of such adjacent property need not
provide an additional grading bond if the original bond is of sufficient amount
to include such additional grading.91.7006.5.4.  Conditions of the Bond. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 171,939, Eff. 4/15/98.)  Every bond shall be conditioned
such that the owner shall:	1.	Comply with all applicable provisions of this Code
and all other applicable laws;	2.	Comply with all of the terms and conditions of
the grading permit to the satisfaction of the Department;	3.	Complete all of the
work described by the permit, and the plans and specifications relating thereto,
within the time limit specified in the permit.  Upon application by the
permittee, the Department, or the Board, in case an appeal is made to it
pursuant to Section 98.0403 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code, may, for
sufficient cause, extend the time specified in the permit, but no such extension
shall release any surety on the bond.	4.	Install temporary erosion control
devices when required to do so by the provisions of this Code.91.7006.5.5. 
Period and Termination of Bond.  The term of each bond shall begin on the date
of filing and shall remain in effect until the work is completed to the
satisfaction of the Department or until replaced by a new bond in the event of a
change of ownership.  In the event of failure to complete the work and/or
failure to comply with all of the conditions and terms of the permit, the
Department may order some or all of the work to be completed to correct any
hazardous conditions.  The surety executing such bond, or such deposit, shall
continue to be firmly bound under a continuing obligation for the payment of all
necessary costs and expenses that may be incurred or expended by the city in
causing any and all of such required work to be done and that said surety or the
depositor assents to any lawful extension of time within which to construct and
complete such work.  Such costs shall include an amount equal to the cost to
the city of administering the contract and supervising the work required. In the
case of a cash bond, the deposit, or any unused portion thereof, shall be
refunded to the depositor upon completion of the work to the satisfaction of the
Department.  The Department may release or exonerate the bond under appropriate
conditions when the public health and welfare is not jeopardized.91.7006.5.6. 
New Ownership.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,939, Eff. 4/15/98.)  In the event of
change of ownership during grading, the new owner shall secure a new grading
permit and post a new bond to ensure completion of the grading.91.7006.5.7. 
Amount of Bond.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,939, Eff. 4/15/98.)  The amount of
the bond shall be based on the number of cubic yards of material in either
excavation or fill, whichever is the greater amount, and in addition shall
include the cost of all drainage or other protective devices such as, but not
limited to retaining walls, as may lawfully be required.  That portion of the
bond valuation covering the cost of excavation or fill shall be computed as
follows:
  
    
      
        250 to 10,000 cubic yards
      
      
        $1,000, plus $1.00 per cubic yard
      
    
    
      
        10,001 to 100,000 cubic yards
      
      
        $11,000, plus 50 cents per cubic yard for each additional cubic yard in
excess of 10,000
      
    
    
      
        Over 100,000 cubic yards
      
      
        $56,000, plus 35 cents per cubic yard for each additional cubic yard in
excess of 100,000
      
    
  
	For SI: 1 cubic yard = 0.765 m391.7006.5.8.  Installment Refunds.  When a
substantial portion of the required grading work has been completed to the
satisfaction of the Department, and when the completion of the remaining grading
work, site development or planting is delayed, the Department may accept the
completed portion of the grading work and consent to the proportionate reduction
of the bond to an amount estimated to be adequate to ensure completion of the
grading work, site development or planting remaining to be performed.  Only one
such reduction shall be considered for each bond posted.91.7006.5.9.  Entry
Upon Premises.  The Department, the Board of Public Works, the surety company,
or their duly authorized representative, shall have access to the premises
described in the permit for the purpose of inspecting the progress of the
work.	In the event of default in the performance of any terms or conditions of
the permit, the surety or any person employed or engaged in his or her behalf
shall have the right to go upon the premises to complete the required work,
including the installation of temporary erosion control devices.	Should the
permittee or the surety fail to perform the work described by the permit and the
plans and specification relating thereto or required by any applicable law, and
it is determined by either the Department or the Board of Public Works that the
public health, safety or general welfare is endangered by such failure, the
Department, the Board of Public Works, or the representative of either may enter
upon the premises to perform all or any part of such work, including the
installation of temporary erosion control devices.	It shall be unlawful for the
owner or any other person to interfere with the ingress and egress from such
premises of any authorized representative or agent of any surety company or the
city engaged in the work ordered by the Department or the Board of Public
Works.91.7006.6.  Consent of Adjacent Property Owner.  (Amended by Ord. No.
171,939, Eff. 4/15/98.)  Whenever any excavation or fill requires entry onto
adjacent property for any reason, the permit applicant shall obtain the written
consent of the adjacent property owner or the owner’s authorized
representative, and shall file a copy of said consent with the Department before
a permit for such grading work may be issued.  The signature on such written
consent shall be notarized.	In the event contours on adjacent properties are
permanently changed, structures or drainage devices are added or modified,
and/or the work done requires a grading permit under Section 91.106.1.2, a
separate permit shall be required for each such affected adjoining property in
addition to the consent letter.  Furthermore, the adjacent property owner shall
acknowledge his or her consent on plans showing such work.  The consent letter
will not be required if such grading permit is taken out by the adjoining
owner.91.7006.7.  Limitation of Export and Import.91.7006.7.1.  Export-import
Defined.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,939, Eff. 4/15/98.)  As used in this
division, the term “export” and its derivatives shall be defined as the
earth, brush or similar materials transported from a grading site.  The term
“import” and its derivatives shall be defined as earth, brush or similar
materials transported to a grading site.91.7006.7.2.  General Conditions. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 171,939, Eff. 4/15/98.)  The Department may designate
routes of ingress and egress and may impose such conditions and require such
safety precautions for pedestrian and vehicular traffic as it determines are
required in the interest of public health, safety and welfare.	The imposed
conditions may include, but are not limited to:	1.	Restricting the size and type
of hauling equipment.	2.	Requiring traffic control device, flaggers, and signs
and markers at appropriate locations along the designated routes as provided in
the City of Los Angeles Department of Public Works and Traffic pamphlet, “Work
Area Traffic Control Handbook”, 1990 Edition, or latest subsequent
revisions.	3.	Establishing a temporary “no parking” area authorized by the
general manager of the Transportation Department when determined to be
necessary.	4.	Securing all loads by trimming, watering or other appropriate
means to prevent spillage and dust.91.7006.7.3.  Subdivision Conditions.  All
conditions of import and export imposed in the approval of a tentative tract map
shall be made a part of the grading permit.91.7006.7.4.  Special Hillside
Conditions.  No permit requiring the import or export of more than 1,000 cubic
yards (764 m3) shall be issued for areas designated “hillside” except as
specified in this section.  A fee of $529.00 for the first 1,000 cubic yards
and $100.00 additional for each 1,000 cubic yards or portion of 1,000 cubic
yards, in addition to the permit fee shall be paid for processing an application
for grading under the provisions of this section.  (Amended by Ord. No.
180,868, Eff. 10/22/09.)	1.	The applicant shall submit a proposed method of
hauling, which shall include the location of borrow and/or dispersal sites
within the hillside area, the truck staging areas, the portion of the haul route
within the hillside area and extending to or from a major or secondary highway,
the maximum gross weight of haul vehicles when loaded and other information as
may be required by the Departments of Building and Safety, Transportation and
Public Works.  In addition, the applicant shall submit a copy of the
soil/geological report approval letter when reports are required pursuant to
Section 7006.2, a vicinity map, and a list of affected property owners to be
notified of the public hearing pursuant to Item 4.  (Amended by Ord. No.
179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)	2.	The Department shall immediately
forward a copy of the hauling proposal to the Department of Public Works which
shall review same to determine the effect of the proposed hauling operation on
the structural integrity of the public streets, on public safety due to street
alignment, width and grade, and on public health and welfare due to noise and
vibration as it may affect private property situated on or adjacent to the haul
route within the hillside area.	The Department of Public Works shall collect a
fee and may require a bond as specified in Article 2 of Chapter VI of the Los
Angeles Municipal Code.  The Department of Public Works may, within 21 days
after receipt of the proposal, recommend conditions to be imposed on the hauling
operations to protect the public health, safety and welfare in the respects
hereinabove specified.	3.	The Department shall also immediately forward a copy
of the hauling proposal to the Department of Transportation which shall review
same to determine the effect thereof on vehicular and pedestrian traffic in the
affected area.  The Department of Transportation may, within 21 days after
receipt of the proposal, recommend any traffic control measures deemed necessary
to protect the public health, safety and welfare.	4.	(Amended by Ord. No.
179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)  The Department shall within 45 days
after receipt of the proposed method of hauling, schedule a public hearing
before the board provided that any environmental document required pursuant to
the provisions of the California Environmental Quality Act has been completed
and that the soils/geology report for the project, if required pursuant to
Section 91.7006.2, has been reviewed and approved by the Department’s Grading
Division.	The Department shall give notice of the time, place and purpose of the
hearing as follows:	a.	by publishing a notice in at least one publication of
general circulation in the City, designated for that purpose by the City Clerk,
not less than ten days prior to the date of the hearing; and	b.	by mailing a
written notice at least ten days prior to the date of the hearing to the owner
or owners of the property involved, and to the owners of all properties within
300 feet (91 440 mm) of the exterior boundaries of the site for which the
grading permit has been requested using, for the purpose of notification, the
last known name and address of owners as are shown on the records of the City
Engineer or the records of the County Assessor; and  (Amended by Ord. No.
181,595, Eff. 4/10/11.)	c.	by the applicant posting notice of the public hearing
in a conspicuous place and in clear public view on the property involved at
least five days prior to the date of the public hearing.	5.	At the public
hearing, the Board of Building and Safety Commissioners shall consider the views
of the applicant and all other affected persons.  The board shall then grant or
conditionally grant approval of export and import operations or, in the event it
determines that the grading activity, including the hauling operation, will
endanger the public health, safety and welfare, it shall deny the request. 
Where conditions of the permit are recommended by the Department of Public
Works, including the condition that a bond be posted pursuant to Section 62.202
of the Los Angeles Municipal Code, such conditions shall be made a part of any
permit which may be issued.  The decision of the board shall not be effective
until 10 calendar days have elapsed from the date of the board’s
decision.	6.	Any affected person, including the applicant, who is dissatisfied
with the decision of the board, may appeal the board decision within ten days to
the City Council by filing an appeal with the City Clerk.  The City Council
shall hear and make its determination on the appeal not later than the 30th day
after the appeal has been filed.  The decision of the City Council on the
matter shall be final.  If the City Council fails to act on any appeal within
the time limit specified in this section, the action of the board on the matter
shall be final.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper.
1/1/08.)	7.	The provisions of this section shall not apply to applications for
permits which apply to export or import operations which have been approved in
accordance with Section 17.13 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.91.7006.8. 
Conformance with Zoning Regulations Required.91.7006.8.1.  Subdivision Map
Act.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,939, Eff. 4/15/98.)  No permit shall be issued
for any grading or import or export of earth materials to or from any grading
site except in compliance with the zoning, private street and division of land
regulations contained in Chapter I of the Los Angeles Municipal Code, the
Subdivision Map Act of the State of California and the approved master plan for
the area in which the grading is to be done.91.7006.8.2.  Tentative Tract
Map.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,939, Eff. 4/15/98.)  No permit shall be issued
for the import or export of earth materials to or from and no grading shall be
conducted on any grading site in hillside areas having an area in excess of
60,000 square feet (5574 m2) unless a tentative tract map has been approved
therefor by the advisory agency.  The advisory agency may waive this
requirement if it determines that a tract map is not required by the division of
land regulations contained in Chapter I of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code.	EXCEPTION:  The requirements of this section shall not apply to any
grading allowed under the exception to Section 91.7005.1.
