                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR THE REPAIR OF WELDED STEEL MOMENT FRAME BUILDINGS LOCATED
IN HIGH EARTHQUAKE DAMAGED AREAS. (§ 91.8908)

  SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR THE REPAIR OF WELDED STEEL MOMENT FRAME BUILDINGS
LOCATED IN HIGH EARTHQUAKE DAMAGED AREAS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 171,175, Eff. 7/25/96.)91.8908.1.  Welded steel moment
frame buildings located in high earthquake damaged areas experienced damage in
the beam to column moment connection as a result of the earthquake of January
17, 1994 and its aftershocks.  Except as provided by this section, it is
unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to maintain a building with
damaged welded moment connections.  The purpose of this section is to provide a
practicable method, in addition to any other remedy available by law, whereby
earthquake damaged welded steel frame moment buildings may be
repaired.91.8908.2. If the Department determines that a commercial building is a
welded steel moment frame building located in a high earthquake damaged area,
then the Department may issue an order to the owner, as shown on the last
equalized assessment roll, to repair all damaged welded connections.	Within 180
days of mailing of the order, the building owner shall submit an inspection
report to the Department indicating the number of damaged welded connections and
proposed repair procedures.  This inspection report shall be prepared under the
direction of a structural engineer licensed by the State of California and shall
include the results of any ultrasonic tests or the results of other approved
methods of testing of connections.  The inspection report shall be approved
when it is determined to be in keeping with general standards established by the
Department.  Permits shall be obtained and repairs to the damaged connections
shall commence within 90 days of the Department’s approval of the submitted
report.  Repairs shall be completed within two years of the date of the
permit.91.8908.3.  For purposes of this section, the following areas are high
earthquake damaged areas:	That area bounded by, Mulholland Drive, Beverly Glen
Boulevard, Pico Boulevard, Overland Avenue, Venice Boulevard, Centinela Avenue,
Montana Avenue, 26th Street, Sunset Boulevard, and Mandeville Canyon Road.	That
area of the City which is North of Mulholland Drive, and bounded by Universal
City, Burbank, Glendale, Los Angeles County, and Ventura County.	The City
Council, by resolution, may extend the boundaries of these earthquake damaged
areas if it finds that damage has occurred to welded steel moment frame
buildings outside the boundaries described above.  The Department may issue an
order for any welded steel moment frame building outside of the high earthquake
damaged areas if the Department determines that the building has experienced
earthquake damage.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper.
1/1/08.)91.8908.4.  If an owner fails to comply with an order issued pursuant
to this section within the time set forth in the order or such additional time
as may be granted by the Department, then the Department may secure compliance
utilizing the procedures set forth in Section 91.8903.  However, if the
Department utilizes Section 91.8903, then the order described in Section
91.8903.1.1 shall indicate that the building is within the scope of Division 89
because of the owner’s failure to comply with the requirements of this
section.  Further the time for compliance set forth in Section 91.8903.1.2 may
be reduced to 10 days, and the order to vacate described in Section 91.8903.1.3
may be issued whenever the Department deems appropriate.91.8908.5. 
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Code to the contrary, the owner of
any building, who fails to comply with an order issued pursuant to this section
within the time limits established in this section, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.  Further, if the Department determines at any time that the
building is a hazardous building or unsafe to occupy, then it may order that the
building be vacated or that other corrective actions be taken.
