                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEFINITIONS. (§ 91.8902)

  DEFINITIONS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 171,175, Eff. 7/25/96.)	For the purpose of this division,
certain terms are defined as follows:	DEPARTMENT.  Refer to Division 2 of this
Code.	HAZARDOUS BUILDING.  Any building, structure or portion thereof which has
any or all of the hereinafter described defects:	1.	Whenever any door, aisle,
passageway, stairway or other means of exit is not of sufficient width or size,
or is not so arranged as to provide safe and adequate means of exit, in case of
fire or panic, for all persons housed or assembled therein who would be required
to, or might, use such door, aisle, passageway, stairway or other means of
exit.	2.	Whenever the stress in any materials, member or portion thereof, due to
all dead and live loads, is more than one and one-half times the working stress
or stresses allowed in Article 1 of Division IX of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code.	3.	Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by earthquake, wind,
flood, or by any other cause, in such a manner that the structural strength or
stability thereof is appreciably less than it was before such catastrophe and is
less than the minimum requirements of this Code for a new building of similar
structure, purpose or location.	4.	Whenever any portion of any member or
appurtenance thereof is likely to fall, or to become detached or dislodged, or
to collapse and thereby injure persons or damage property.	5.	Whenever any
portion of a building or any member or appurtenance thereof or ornamentation on
the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or stability or is not so
anchored, attached or fastened in place so as to be capable of resisting a wind
pressure of one half that specified in this Code without exceeding the working
stresses permitted in this Code.	6.	Whenever any portion thereof has settled to
such an extent that walls or other structural portions have materially less
resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case of new
construction.	7.	Whenever the building or structure, or any portion thereof,
because of dilapidation, deterioration, decay, faulty construction, or because
of the removal or movement of some portion of the ground necessary for the
purpose of supporting such building, or portion thereof, or some other cause, is
likely to partially or completely collapse, or some portion of the foundation or
underpinning is likely to fall or give way.	8.	Whenever, for any reason
whatsoever, the building or structure, or any portion thereof, is manifestly
unsafe for the purpose for which it is used.	9.	Whenever the exterior walls or
other vertical structural members list, lean or buckle to such an extent that a
plumb line passing through the center gravity does not fall inside the middle
third of the base.	10.	Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the
foundation, shows 33 percent or more of damage or deterioration to the member or
members, or 50 percent of damage or deterioration or a nonsupporting enclosing
or outside wall or covering.	11.	Whenever the building or structure has been so
damaged by fire, wind, earthquake or flood or has become so dilapidated or
deteriorated as to become an attractive nuisance to children who might play
therein to their danger, or as to afford a harbor for vagrants, criminals or
immoral persons or as to enable persons to resort thereto for the purpose of
committing nuisance or unlawful or immoral acts.	12.	Any building or structure
which has been constructed, or which now exists or is maintained in violation of
any specific requirements or prohibition, applicable to such building or
structure, of the building regulations of this city, as set forth in Article 1
of Chapter IX of the Los Angeles Municipal Code or of any provisions of Article
7 of Chapter V of the Los Angeles Municipal Code relating to the prevention of
fire, when so determined and reported by the chief engineer, Fire Department, or
of Article 1 of Chapter III of the Los Angeles Municipal Code relating to the
protection of health when so determined and reported by the health officer, or
of any law or ordinance of this state or city relating to the condition,
location or structure of buildings.	13.	Any building or structure which, whether
or not erected in accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances, has in any
nonsupporting part, member or portion, less than 50 percent, or in any
supporting member less than 66 percent, of the strength, fire-resisting
qualities or characteristics or weather-resisting qualities or characteristics
required by law or ordinance in the case of a newly constructed building of like
area, height and occupancy in the same location.	14.	Whenever a building or
structure, used or intended to be used for dwelling purposes, because of
dilapidation, decay, damage or faulty construction or arrangement, or otherwise,
is insanitary or unfit for human habitation or is in a condition that is likely
to cause sickness or disease, when so determined by the health officer, or is
likely to work injury to the health, safety or general welfare of those living
within.	15.	Whenever the building or structure, used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, has light, air and sanitation facilities inadequate to
protect the health, safety or general welfare of persons living
within.	16.	Whenever any building or structure by reason of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, electric wiring, gas connections,
heating apparatus or other cause, is in such condition as to be a fire hazard
and is so situated as to endanger life or other buildings or property in the
vicinity or provide a ready fuel supply to augment the spread and intensity of
fire arising from any cause.	17.	Whenever any fire-protective construction or
safety device does not provide the degree of security to life and property
required by the Los Angeles Municipal Code.	18.	Whenever a building or structure
is classified as a “Substandard Building.”	19.	Whenever a building or
structure has become vacant and vandalized.	20.	Whenever a building or structure
has become a nuisance.	NUISANCE.  Any premises, building, structure or portion
thereof containing numerous code violations or one or more imminent life
hazards.	SUBSTANDARD BUILDING.  Any building, or portion thereof, including any
dwelling unit, guest room or suite of rooms, or the premises on which the same
is located, in which there exists any of the following listed conditions to an
extent that endangers the life, limb, health, property, safety or welfare of the
public or the occupants thereof:91.8902.1.  Inadequate Sanitation.  Inadequate
sanitation shall include, but not be limited to, the following:	1.	Lack of or
improper water closet, lavatory, bathtub or shower in a dwelling unit.	2.	Lack
of or improper water closets, lavatories and bathtubs or showers per number of
guests in a hotel.	3.	Lack of or improper kitchen sink.	4.	Lack of hot and cold
running water to plumbing fixtures in a hotel.	5.	Lack of hot and cold running
water to plumbing fixtures in a dwelling unit.	6.	Lack of adequate
heating.	7.	Lack of or improper operation of required ventilating
equipment.	8.	Lack of minimum amounts of natural light and ventilation required
by this Code.	9.	Room and space dimensions less than required by this
Code.	10.	Lack of required electrical lighting.	11.	Dampness of habitable
rooms.	12.	Infestation of insects, vermin or rodents as determined by the health
officer.	13.	General dilapidation or improper maintenance.	14.	Lack of
connection to required sewage disposal system.	15.	Lack of adequate garbage and
rubbish storage and removal facilities as determined by the health
officer.91.8902.2.  Structural Hazards.  Structural hazards shall include, but
not be limited to, the following:	1.	Deteriorated or inadequate
foundations.	2.	Defective or deteriorated flooring or floor
supports.	3.	Flooring or floor supports of insufficient size to carry imposed
loads with safety.	4.	Members of walls, partitions or other vertical supports
that split, lean, list or buckle due to defective material or
deterioration.	5.	Members of walls, partitions or other vertical supports that
are of insufficient size to carry imposed loads with safety.	6.	Members of
ceilings, roofs, ceiling and roof supports or other horizontal members which
sag, split or buckle due to defective material or deterioration.	7.	Members of
ceilings, roofs, ceiling and roof supports, or other horizontal members that are
of insufficient size to carry imposed loads with safety.	8.	Fireplaces or
chimneys which list, bulge or settle, due to defective material or
deterioration.	9.	Fireplaces or chimneys which are of insufficient size or
strength to carry imposed loads with safety.91.8902.3.  Nuisance.  Any
nuisance as defined in this Code.91.8902.4.  Hazardous Wiring.  All wiring
except that which conformed with all applicable laws in effect at the time of
installation and which has been maintained in good condition and is being used
in a safe manner.91.8902.5.  Hazardous Plumbing.  All plumbing except that
which conformed with all applicable laws in effect at the time of installation
and which has been maintained in good condition and which is free of
cross-connections and siphonage between fixtures.91.8902.6.  Hazardous
Mechanical Equipment.  All mechanical equipment, including vents, except that
which conformed with all applicable laws in effect at the time of installation
and which has been maintained in good and safe condition.91.8902.7.  Faulty
Weather Protection.  Shall include, but not be limited to, the
following:	1.	Deteriorated, crumbling or loose plaster.	2.	Deteriorated or
ineffective waterproofing of exterior walls, roof, foundations or floors,
including broken windows or doors.
	3.	Defective or lack of weather protection for exterior wall coverings,
including lack of paint, or weathering due to lack of paint or other approved
protective covering.	4.	Broken, rotted, split or buckled exterior wall coverings
or roof coverings.91.8902.8.  Fire Hazard.  Any building or portion thereof,
device, apparatus, equipment, combustible waste or vegetation which, in the
opinion of the Chief of the Fire Department or the Chief’s deputy, is in such
a condition as to cause a fire or explosion or provide a ready fuel to augment
the spread and intensity of fire or explosion arising from any
cause.91.8902.9.  Faulty Materials of Construction.  All materials of
construction except those which are specifically allowed or approved by this
Code and which have been adequately maintained in a good and safe
condition.91.8902.10.  Hazardous or Unsanitary Premises.  Those premises on
which an accumulation of weeds, vegetation, junk, dead organic matter, debris,
garbage, offal, rat harborages, stagnant water, combustible materials and
similar materials or conditions constitute fire, health or safety
hazards.91.8902.11.  Inadequate Maintenance.  Any building or portion thereof
which is determined to be an unsafe building in accordance with the standards
set forth in Section 91.8104.91.8902.12.  Inadequate Exits.  All buildings or
portions thereof not provided with adequate exit facilities as required by this
Code except those buildings or portions thereof whose exit facilities conformed
with all applicable laws at the time of their construction and which have been
adequately maintained and increased in relation to any increase in occupant
load, alteration or addition, or any change in occupancy.	When an unsafe
condition exists through lack of, or improper location of, exit, additional
exits may be required to be installed.91.8902.13.  Inadequate Fire-Protection
or Fire-Fighting Equipment.  All buildings or portions thereof which are not
provided with the fire-resistive construction or fire-extinguishing systems or
equipment required by this Code, except those buildings or portions thereof
which conformed with all applicable laws at the time of their construction and
whose fire-resistive integrity and fire-extinguishing systems or equipment have
been adequately maintained and improved in relation to any increase in occupant
load, alteration or addition, or any change in occupancy.91.8902.14.  Illegal
Occupancy.  All buildings or portions thereof occupied for living, sleeping,
cooking or dining purposes which were not designed or intended to be used for
such occupancies.
