                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PERMITS REQUIRED – GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. (§ 91.8302)

  PERMITS REQUIRED – GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 171,175, Eff. 7/25/96.)91.8302.1.  Board of Public Works
– Permission Required.  No person shall move any building or structure, or
any portion thereof, over, upon, along or across any street without a written
permit therefor from the Board of Public Works.  Such permit may be referred to
as a “House Mover’s Permit” and shall be issued under the provisions of
Sections 62.83.1 and 62.84 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.91.8302.2. 
Department of Building and Safety – Security Deposit and Permit
Required.91.8302.2.1.  No House Mover’s Permit shall be issued until the
Department of Building and Safety has first received a security deposit as
required pursuant to Section 91.8305 of this Code.91.8302.2.2.  If the building
or structure is to be moved to a permanent site within City limits, no House
Mover’s Permit shall be issued until the Department of Building and Safety has
first issued to the owner or person having legal control of the premises to
which the building is to be moved, a permit to relocate the particular building
upon those premises.  Such permit shall be called a “Relocation
Permit.”91.8302.2.3.  If the building or structure is to be moved to a
temporary storage site within the City limits, no House Mover’s Permit shall
be issued until the applicant furnishes evidence to the Department of Building
and Safety that the storage site is within the proper zone pursuant to the
provisions of Article 2, Chapter I of the Los Angeles Municipal Code (Zoning
Code) and that a Certificate of Occupancy for land use has been issued pursuant
to the requirements of Section 12.26 E 2 of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code.91.8302.2.4.  If the building or structure is to be moved to a site
outside City limits, no House Mover’s Permit shall be issued until the
applicant furnishes evidence to the Department of Building and Safety that the
proposed location meets the requirements of the jurisdiction.91.8302.2.5. 
Prior to issuance of a Relocation Permit, an inspection shall be required to
investigate the condition of the building to be moved and to investigate the
acceptability of the proposed new location.  Fees for such inspection shall be
paid by the applicant as specified in Section 91.8308.91.8302.3.  Department of
Building and Safety – Sewer-capping Permit Required.  Where a building or
structure is to be removed from a lot within the City, no House Mover’s Permit
shall be issued until the Department of Building and Safety has first issued to
the owner of such premises a permit to provide a watertight cap to the house
connection sewer at the property or sewer easement line.91.8302.4.  Building
Relocation Conditions.91.8302.4.1.  An apartment house or dwelling moved into
or within the City and all other buildings moved within the City may retain the
existing materials and methods of construction, provided that in the new
location the building conforms to the requirements of this Code with respect to
fire district requirements, under floor ventilation and clearance, underpinning,
footings, foundations, occupancy requirements, and fire safety standards and
does not become or continue to be a substandard residential building.	A
substandard residential building and any building other than an apartment house
or dwelling moved into the City shall be made to conform to all of the
requirements of this Code for a new building in the same location within the
City and to all other applicable laws.91.8302.4.2.  The Department of Building
and Safety may, in granting any relocation permit, impose such terms and
conditions it deems reasonable and proper, including, but not limited to, the
requirements of maintenance corrections, alterations or repairs to be made to
the building or structure so that the relocation thereof will not be materially
detrimental or injurious to public safety or to public welfare or to the
property and improvements within a radius of 1,000 feet from the site to which
it is be relocated.
