                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ABATEMENT PROCEDURES. (§ 91.8903)

  ABATEMENT PROCEDURES.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 171,175, Eff. 7/25/96.)91.8903.1.  Issuance of Initial
Orders.91.8903.1.1.  Notification.  Whenever the Department determines that
any building, structure, or premises is within the scope of this division, the
Department shall issue an order to the owner as shown in the last equalized
assessment roll.	The order shall specify the conditions which exist which cause
the building or premises to be within the scope of this division of this Code;
whereupon the owner or owner’s agent shall obtain the necessary permits and
abate the deficiencies in accordance with Section 91.8903.1.2.	The order shall
also require that the owner maintain the vacant buildings or structures vacant
until they are repaired or demolished.	The requirements of this section shall
also apply to any building, structure, attached or detached appurtenances, or
premises as determined by the Department.  (Para. Added by Ord. No. 172,413,
Eff. 2/20/99.)91.8903.1.2.  Time for Compliance.  Within 30 days after notice
is given, the owner or the owner’s agents shall obtain the necessary permits
and shall commence work to abate the deficiencies.  All necessary work shall be
completed within 90 days after such notice is given.91.8903.1.3.  Order to
Vacate.  If the necessary permits are not obtained or the required work is not
physically commenced within 45 days after notice is given, or the identified
deficient conditions are not corrected within 90 days after notice is given, the
Department may order the owner to cause the building to be vacated and may also
institute enforcement action as provided in this division.91.8903.1.4.  Vacated
Buildings.  No person shall reoccupy any building within the scope of this
division which is found to be vacant or is ordered vacated in accordance with
Section 91.8903.1.3, until the deficiencies have been abated and a new
Certificate of Occupancy or clearance is obtained from the Department.  Any
Certificate of Occupancy previously issued for such building shall be
void.91.8903.1.5  Posting of Buildings.  Vacated buildings shall be locked by
the owner and otherwise secured against ingress.  If the Department has ordered
that a building be vacated or that the owner maintain a building vacant, then
the Department shall post thereon, in a conspicuous place near the entrance, a
warning placard or sign.	A warning placard or sign posted pursuant to this
section shall not be defaced, covered, removed or hidden from view in any
manner.	The placard or sign posted shall read substantially as follows:VACATED
BUILDING – DO NOT ENTER
BY ORDER OF THE
DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND SAFETY
CITY OF LOS ANGELES	It is a misdemeanor to enter or occupy or be present in this
building.  It is a misdemeanor to remove, deface, cover, or hide this
placard.  SEC. 91.8903 Los Angeles Municipal Code.91.8903.1.6.  Removal of
Utilities.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,758, Eff. 8/8/11.)  Utility connections
of electricity and gas shall be removed from buildings within the scope of
Section 91.8903.1.4 by the appropriate utility agency and shall not be
reconnected until clearance is obtained from the department.91.8903.1.7. 
Recordation.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,758, Eff. 8/8/11.)  At the time that
the Department serves the order described in Section 91.8903.1 of this Code, the
Department shall file with the Office of the County Recorder a certificate
stating that the subject building has been determined to be either a hazardous
building, a substandard residential building, or a nuisance, that it has been
ordered repaired or demolished, and that the owner thereof has been so
notified.	After the building has been repaired or demolished, the Department
shall file with the Office of the County Recorder a certificate terminating the
above recorded status of the subject building.91.8903.1.8. Manner of Giving
Notice.  (Added by Ord. No. 181,758, Eff. 8/8/11.)  The orders described in
this Section shall be given in writing and may be given either by personal
delivery thereof to the person to be notified or by deposit in the United States
mail in a sealed envelope, postage prepaid, addressed to such person to be
notified at the address as shown on the last equalized assessment roll. 
Service by mail shall be deemed to have been completed at the time of deposit in
the post office.  The failure of any owner or other person to receive such
notice shall not affect in any manner the validity of any of the proceedings
taken thereunder. Proof of giving any notice may be made by an affidavit of any
employee of the City which shows service in conformity with this
Section.91.8903.2.  Violations – Penalties for Disregarding Initial
Orders.91.8903.2.1.  The owner or other person having charge and control over
any building or structure determined by the Department to fall within the scope
of this division who shall fail to comply with any order to repair, vacate and
repair, or demolish said building, structure or premises within the time limits
established in this division shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.91.8903.2.2.  The
occupant or lessee in possession who fails to comply with any order to vacate
said building in accordance with any order given as provided for in this
division shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.91.8903.2.3.  Any person who removes
any notice or order posted as required in this division shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.91.8903.2.4.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,758, Eff. 8/8/11.)  No
person shall enter, occupy or be present in a building which has been posted by
the Department pursuant to this Section.  Any person who enters, occupies or is
present in a building which has been posted by the Department pursuant to this
Section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.  This prohibition shall not apply to
public officers or public employees acting within the course and scope of their
employment or in the performance of their official duties; or owners, persons
acting with the consent of the building owner, the owner’s agent, or person in
lawful possession acting in the course of complying with an order issued
pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter.	Notwithstanding any other provision
of the Los Angeles Municipal Code to the contrary, a police officer with the Los
Angeles Police Department shall have the authority to enter any building posted
by the Department pursuant to this Section, and arrest anyone present in
violation of this Section.91.8903.3.  Enforcement – Non-Compliance with
Department Orders.91.8903.3.1.  General.  Whenever compliance with an order
issued pursuant to the provisions of this division for vacated or occupied
buildings has not been accomplished within the time set or any additional time
as may have been granted under the appellate provisions of this division, the
Department may institute appropriate action to secure compliance as provided by
law for misdemeanor violation or may cause, by whatever means the Department
determines appropriate, the correction of the deficiencies, whether the building
is vacated or occupied, or the vacation and demolition, including but not
limited to the monitoring and removal of asbestos, of the building or
structure.  (Amended by Ord. No. 175,596, Eff. 12/7/03.)91.8903.3.2. 
Determination of Interested Parties.  When the Department determines to cause
the correction of the deficiencies or the demolition of a building or structure,
it shall obtain a title report either from the Division of Real Estate, Bureau
of Engineering, Department of Public Works, City of Los Angeles or by
contracting with one or more private title reporting agencies.  Said title
report shall list all persons shown on the records of the County Recorder as
having an ownership interest or liens or encumbrances or other interests in the
real property on which the building or structure is located.91.8903.3.3. 
Notification—Notice of Intention.  (Amended by Ord. No. 172,702, Eff.
8/16/99.)  When the Department determines that the owner shall correct the
deficiencies or shall demolish the building or structure, the Department shall
notify the owner as identified in the title report and other persons listed in
the title report as having an interest in the real property.	The Notice of
Intention shall describe the land and notify the owner of the intention of the
City of Los Angeles to cause the correction of the deficiencies or the
demolition of the building or structure located on the land, and shall specify a
date certain upon or after which the Department shall solicit bids or execute a
work order, and shall have the authority to advise that any time thereafter the
Department may execute an agreement to do such work.  The Department shall also
notify the owner that the City will cause the cost of such repair or demolition
plus an amount equal to 40 percent of such cost, but not less than $100.00, to
cover the cost of the City administering the contract and supervising the
required work, to be made a lien against real property on which the building or
structure is located.  In the event that a contractor offers to pay the City to
demolish a building in order to obtain the salvage material, the City’s
administrative charge shall be 40 percent of the amount paid by the contractor,
but not less than $100.00.  Finally, the notice shall advise of the owner’s
right to a hearing.	The date for solicitation of bids or execution of the work
order shall not be sooner than 10 days following the mailing of the notices by
certified mail as described in Section 91.8903.3.4.  The award of the contract
for such repair or removal may be given at any time following the receipt of
bids.	One or more “Annual Unit-price Contracts” may be awarded by the
Department for the demolition of “privately owned, readily accessible one and
two-story wood-frame structures on level lots”.  In the event one or more
such contracts have been executed which are applicable to the building which is
to be removed, the notice shall advise that the work shall be pursuant to such
contract, and that following a date certain, not less than 10 days following the
mailing of notice by certified mail, the City pursuant to such contract shall
have the authority to order the contractor to perform the work at the prices
specified in said “Unit-price Contract”.  For the purposes of this
subsection an “Annual Unit-price Contract” shall mean a 12-month contract
awarded by the Department after competitive bidding based on both stipulated
prices and price per square foot of building area for the demolition and removal
of buildings, structures and accompanying items on certain properties when and
as directed by the Department by means of a work order.  No work order shall be
executed except in conjunction with the necessary contract or contracts.	The
Department shall have the authority to award contracts for the demolition of all
other types of buildings or structures by soliciting competitive bids.  The
General Manager shall have the authority to establish procedures and deadlines
for soliciting competitive bids from any interested contractors.  In addition,
the General Manager shall have the authority to establish procedures for the
pre-qualification of contractors in a manner consistent with the requirements of
Section 386 of the Charter and subject to the approval of the City
Attorney.91.8903.3.4.  Method of Notification.  The notice required by this
section shall be sent to each required person by certified mail, postage
prepaid, return receipt requested, at the address or addresses of such persons
as it appears on the last equalized assessment roll of the County or as known to
the City Engineer.  If for any reason the certified letter is returned, whether
undeliverable or refused, another copy of the letter shall be sent by
first-class mail, postage prepaid.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,595, Eff.
4/10/11.)	Further, a copy of any order or notice issued under this section shall
be posted in a conspicuous place upon the building or structure involved.	The
failure of any owner or other person to receive such notice shall not affect in
any manner the validity of any proceedings taken thereunder.91.8903.3.5. 
Affidavit of Service.  The employee of the Department, upon giving notice as
provided in this section, shall file an affidavit thereof certifying to the date
and manner in which such notice was given.  Any receipt card which may have
been returned to the employee in acknowledgment of the receipt of such notice by
certified mail shall also be filed with the affidavit.91.8903.4.  Owner’s
Loss of Rights.91.8903.4.1.  General.  Whenever the Department has undertaken
action to correct deficiencies, secure or demolish any building, structure or
portion thereof under the provisions of this division upon failure of the owner
or person in apparent charge or control of the property to comply with an order
therefor, and has caused the solicitation of bids or executed a work order to
accomplish such work, the owner or person in apparent charge or control of the
property shall be deemed to have forfeited all further rights and privileges to
do such work and is thereafter prohibited from doing any such work, except as
the Department may otherwise allow.91.8903.4.2.  Penalty for Performing Work
Prior to Contract Awarding.  In the event that the owner or other person having
charge or control of such building or structure proceeds to perform the
corrective work or demolish said building or structure, with or without the
permission of the Department or Board of Building and Safety Commissioners,
after bids have been solicited or a work order executed, but prior to the award
of the contract or the acceptance of the work order by the contractor, a charge
shall be imposed upon such person as partial reimbursement to the City for any
expenses incurred by it in the proceeding.  Such charge shall be in the amount
of 20 percent of the lowest bid for the demolition or repair contract or of the
work order charge, whichever applies, but in no event less than the sum of
$75.00.91.8903.4.3.  Penalty for Performing Work After Contract Is Awarded. 
If the owner or other person having charge or control of the building or
structure proceeds to perform the corrective work or demolish the building or
structure after the award of the demolition or repair contract or after the
acceptance of the work order by the contractor, but before the contractor has
commenced performance, a charge shall be imposed upon such person in an amount
which shall be the sum of a charge computed as in Section 91.8903.4.2 plus the
amount of the contractor’s claim filed with the City Clerk and approved by the
Department pursuant to the provisions of Section 91.8903.5.91.8903.5. 
Cancellation of Contract or Work Order.91.8903.5.1.  General.  If, for any
reason, the Department wishes to cancel a demolition or repair contract after it
has been awarded or a work order after it has been executed and accepted, it may
do so by written notification delivered to the contractor any time prior to the
commencement of the work.  When the Department determines that expediency so
requires, an oral notice of cancellation may be given, immediately followed by
its confirmation in writing.  Upon receipt of such oral or written notification
the contractor shall take no further action toward demolition or repair of the
building or structure.91.8903.5.2.  Compensation of Contractor – Cancellation
of Contract or Work Order.  Upon cancellation of a demolition or repair
contract by the Department, the contractor may submit a claim to the City Clerk
in an amount up to 25 percent of the contract price, but not to exceed the sum
of $1,000.00, payment of which contractor shall accept as compensation for all
real and anticipated expenses and profits.	Upon cancellation of a work order by
the Department, the contractor may submit a claim to the City Clerk up to the
amount of $200.00, payment of which contractor shall accept as compensation for
all real and anticipated expenses and profits.91.8903.5.3.  Source of
Contractor Reimbursement Funds.  Claims submitted pursuant to Section
91.8903.5.2 and to the extent approved by the Department shall be paid by the
Department out of the Repair and Demolition Fund.  Where the amount of the
claim has been made a charge against the owner or other party of interest
pursuant to Section 91.8903.4.3, or where the demolition or repair contract or
work order was canceled by the Department at the request of the owner or other
party of interest, such party shall reimburse the City for the amount of the
claim filed with the City Clerk and approved by the Department or paid from the
repair and demolition fund.91.8903.6.  Failure to Pay Charges.  Should the
owner or other party of interest fail to pay, within 30 days after billing
thereof, any charge imposed upon such party pursuant to Sections 91.8903.5.2 or
91.8903.5.3, the Department shall transmit any unpaid claim to the Office of the
City Attorney for collection and/or appropriate legal remedy as determined by
the Office of the City Attorney.91.8903.7.  Appeals and Hearings.91.8903.7.1. 
Appeals.  Upon written application by an interested party within 30 days from
the service of the initial order as provided for in Section 91.8903.1, for good
cause shown and where no imminent risk of life or property is present, the
Department or the Board, in case an appeal is made to it pursuant to Section
98.403.2 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code, may grant a reasonable extension of
time, not to exceed 120 days after expiration of the 30–day period provided
for in the initial order, within which the work required must be
commenced.	Nothing in this subdivision precludes the Board from establishing a
policy of granting less than the maximum time to comply with Department
orders.91.8903.7.2.  Hearings.	A.	Upon the issuance of a Notice of Intention,
as provided for in Section 91.8903.3, any owner or party of interest may appeal
in writing to the Board for a hearing to determine the condition of the
property, whether it falls within the scope of this division of this Code;
whether it should be repaired or demolished and how much time should be given to
complete the required work.  The request for the hearing shall be made prior to
the date set to solicit bids or execute a work order as specified in the Notice
of Intention.  A request after such date may not be accepted for processing
unless it is submitted prior to the Department’s awarding a contract or
issuing a work order and it is authorized by the Board.  Failure of the owner
or any party of interest in the property to request a hearing within the
specified time or failure to pay the required filing fees shall be deemed a
waiver of request for such a hearing.	B.	At the hearing the Department shall
submit for the record evidence to show whether or not the building or structure
falls within the scope of this division.  The evidence shall consist of, but
need not be limited to, the inspection report originally issued by the
Department pursuant to Section 91.8903.1, recent pictures and testimony by a
representative of the Department.  The owner or any party of interest shall
have the opportunity prior to the hearing to examine the evidence to be
submitted by the Department.  The owner, the owner’s representative or
counsel, or a party of interest should be present at the hearing and will be
given the opportunity to present any relevant evidence or witnesses,
cross-examine any Department witnesses and ask questions or make comments
concerning the Department’s evidence and testimony.  Failure of the owner or
the owner’s representative to appear at the hearing after receiving notice of
the hearing shall be deemed a waiver of hearing rights.	C.	At the conclusion of
the hearing, the Board shall make findings and determine whether the building
falls within the scope of this division and whether the building or structure
should be repaired or demolished and how much time, if any, should be given for
compliance with the Department’s order.91.8903.7.3.  Time Limits for Vacant
Buildings.  Any appeal or request for hearing to the Board for an extension of
time to repair or demolish a vacant privately owned building shall be decided by
the Board no later than 30 days after the hearing thereon and may be granted
only on the condition that such repairs be completed within a maximum period of
180 days after the date of the Board’s first action to grant an extension of
time and on the further condition that no additional time will be
granted.91.8903.7.4.  Notification.  Only those persons who request a hearing
need to be notified of the date and time of the hearing.  Notification shall be
made by certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to the
address as shown on the hearing request application.  The employee of the
Department, upon giving notice as provided in the subsection, shall file an
affidavit thereof certifying to the date and manner in which such notice was
given.  Any receipt card which may have been returned to the employee in
acknowledgment of the receipt of such notice by certified mail shall also be
filed with the affidavit.
