                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ADMINISTRATION. (§ 91.8806)

  ADMINISTRATION.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 171,175, Eff. 7/25/96.)91.8806.1.  Service of Order. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 171,939, Eff. 4/15/98.)  When the Department determines
that a building is within the scope of this division, the owner shall comply
with Section 91.8805. If the owner does not comply, the Department shall issue
an order, as provided in Section 91.8806.2, to the owner of each building with
the minimum time periods for service of such orders set forth in Table No.
88-C.  The minimum time period for the service of such orders shall be measured
from the effective date of this division.  The Department shall, upon receipt
of a written request from the owner, order a building to comply with this
division prior to the normal service date for such building as set forth in this
section.91.8806.2.  Contents of Order.  The order shall be in writing and
shall be served either personally or by certified or registered mail upon the
owner as shown on the last equalized assessment, and upon the person, if any, in
apparent charge or control of the building.  The order shall specify that the
building has been determined by the Department to be within the scope of this
division and, therefore, is required to meet the minimum seismic standards of
this division.  The order shall specify the rating classification of the
building and shall be accompanied by a copy of Section 91.8805, which sets forth
the owner’s alternatives and time limits for compliance.91.8806.3.  Appeal
From Order.  The owner or person in charge or control of the building may
appeal the Department’s initial determination that the building is within the
scope of this division to the Board of Building and Safety Commissioners.  Such
appeal shall be filed with the Board within 60 days from the service date of the
order described in Section 91.8806.2.  Any such appeal shall be decided by the
Board no later than 60 days after the date that the appeal is filed.  Such
appeal shall be made in writing upon appropriate forms provided therefor by the
Department, and the grounds thereof shall be stated clearly and concisely. 
Each appeal shall be accompanied by a filing fee as set forth in Table No. 4-A
of Division 4 of Article 8 of Chapter IX of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code.	Appeals or requests for slight modifications from any other
determinations, orders or actions by the Department pursuant to this division
shall be made in accordance with the procedures established in Section 98.0403.2
of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.91.8806.4.  Recordation.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 171,939, Eff. 4/15/98.)  At the time that the Department serves the
aforementioned order, the Department shall file with the Office of the County
Recorder a certificate stating that the subject building is within the scope of
this division.  The certificate shall also state that the owner thereof has
been ordered to structurally analyze the building and to structurally alter or
demolish it when the Department determines the building is not in compliance
with this division.	If the building is either demolished, found not to be within
the scope of this division, or is structurally capable of resisting minimum
seismic forces required by this division as a result of structural alterations
or an analysis, the Department shall file with the Office of the County Recorder
a certificate terminating the status of the subject building as being classified
within the scope of this division.91.8806.5.  Enforcement.  If the owner or
other person in charge or control of the subject building fails to comply with
any order issued by the Department pursuant to this division within any of the
time limits set forth in Section 91.8805, the Department may order that the
entire building or a portion thereof be vacated and that the building or a
portion thereof remain vacated until such order has been complied with.  If
compliance with such order has not been accomplished within 90 days after the
date the building has been ordered vacated or such additional time as may have
been granted by the Board, the Superintendent may order its demolition in
accordance with the provisions of Section 91.8903 of this Code.
