                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

NUISANCES, HAZARDOUS BUILDINGS AND SUBSTANDARD RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS. (§
91.8108)

  NUISANCES, HAZARDOUS BUILDINGS AND SUBSTANDARD RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 171,858, Eff. 1/23/98.)	Existing buildings which have been
determined to be nuisances, hazardous buildings or substandard residential
buildings under Division 89 of this Code are subject to compliance with all the
requirements of this Code for a new building.	The Department may require an
existing building which has been determined to be a nuisance, a hazardous
building, or a substandard residential building to comply with all current
requirements of this Code for a new building, or may allow the repair of the
building without requiring compliance with all the requirements of this Code for
a new building where it is determined that the continuance of the existing
condition does not pose a substantial hazard to life, limb, health, property or
public welfare. 91.8108.1.  Additional Requirements for Buildings Determined
to Be Nuisances, Hazardous or Substandard Residential Buildings.  The
Department may impose additional requirements for buildings determined to be
nuisances, hazardous or substandard residential buildings in order to address
specific conditions that affect proper maintenance, use, repair, rehabilitation,
alteration and to safeguard life, limb, health, property and public welfare. 
If the Department determines to impose additional requirements, the owner shall
be notified that a hearing has been scheduled before the Board of Building and
Safety Commissioners to determine if additional requirements should be
imposed.91.8108.2.  Notice of Intent and Public Hearing.  The notice of intent
to impose additional requirements and the notice to hold a public hearing before
the Board of Building and Safety Commissioners shall be given either by personal
delivery thereof to the person to be notified or by deposit in the United States
mail in a sealed envelope, postage prepaid, addressed to the person to be
notified at the address shown on the last equalized assessment roll.  Service
by mail shall be deemed to have been completed at the time of deposit in the U.
S. Mail.  The failure of any owner or person to receive the notice shall not
affect in any manner the validity of any of the proceedings taken thereunder. 
Proof of giving any notice may be made by an affidavit of any employee of the
City which shows service in conformity with this section.	The notice shall
indicate:	1.	The street address of the building or premise, or the approximate
street address if no street address has been assigned.	2.	That the condition of
the building constitutes a nuisance, hazardous or substandard residential
building.	3.	The additional requirements to be imposed by the
Department.	4.	Identify the need for the additional requirement.	5.	That the
owner must appear at a hearing conducted by the Board, at a time, date and
location specified in the notice, which shall be at least 15 days from the date
of the notice.	6.	That upon any such appearance, the owner will be given the
opportunity to present and to elicit testimony and other evidence to show cause
why the additional requirements should not be imposed.	7.	That this appearance
may be made by the submission of written materials if they have been received by
the City at least three days prior to the scheduled hearing at the mailing
address specified in the notice.91.8108.3.  Public Hearing.  The matter shall
be scheduled for hearing before the Board on the date and time specified in the
notice.  The Board shall proceed to determine whether additional requirements
should be imposed.	The person notified to appear, or the actual owner of the
parcel or premises in the event the person notified is not the owner, or any
person representing the owner who attends the hearing, shall be given an
opportunity to present and to elicit testimony and any other evidence on whether
the additional requirements should be imposed.  The Board shall proceed with
the hearing whether or not that person is in attendance.  Written material
shall be considered by the Board if it is received at least three days prior to
the scheduled hearing date.	At the conclusion of the hearing, the Board shall
make a finding and determine whether the condition of the premises warrants
additional requirements in order to safeguard life, limb, health, property and
public welfare.  The owner and any other person who appeared at the scheduled
public hearing on behalf of the owner, either in person or by the submission of
written material, shall be notified in writing of the determination of the
Board.  Once the Board has acted, it shall have no further jurisdiction over
any matter relating to the imposition of additional requirements on the
premises.  Any further determinations in this regard, including requests for
extensions of time, shall be within the sole jurisdiction and discretion of the
Superintendent of Building and not appealable to the Board.
