                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PARAPETS AND APPENDAGES. (§ 91.8114)

  PARAPETS AND APPENDAGES.
	(Added by Ord. No. 171,175, Eff. 7/25/96.)	No building shall have any parapet
or appendage attached to or supported by an exterior wall of the building and
located adjacent to a public way or to a way set apart for exit from a building
or passage of pedestrians, if such parapet or appendage is not so adequately
constructed, anchored or braced as to remain wholly in its original position in
event of an earthquake having the effect designated by Division 16 of this
Code.	Whenever the Department determines by inspection that an existing parapet
or appendage is not so adequately constructed, anchored or braced as to remain
wholly in its original position, the Department shall, by written notice
addressed to the owner, person or agent in control of the building, designate
and describe the hazards and inadequacies of construction, anchorage or bracing
determined by such inspection and direct that the necessary corrections be made
to ensure that all of the parapet or appendage remain in its original
position.  Upon receipt of such notice, the owner, person or agent in control
of the building where such parapet or appendage exists, shall, within one year
from the date of such notice:	1.	Submit to the Department suitable corrective
plans;	2.	Obtain the necessary alteration permit; and	3.	Complete all the work
necessary or ordered.  All the plans thus submitted shall have the intent of
eliminating the parapet or appendage, or reconstructing such parapet or
appendage so that it will conform structurally with requirements of this Code,
or strengthening such parapet or appendage by bracing or other means so that it
will resist the forces of an earthquake and remain in its original position.	Any
person receiving a notice as set out in this subsection may appeal from the
notice of the Department in the manner provided by Section 98.0403 of the Los
Angeles Municipal Code.
