                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PERMIT APPLICATION – PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS. (§ 91.8303)

  PERMIT APPLICATION – PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 171,175, Eff. 7/25/96.)91.8303.1.  Every application to
the Department of Building and Safety for a relocation permit shall be in
writing upon a form furnished by that Department and shall set forth such
information as that Department may reasonably require in order to carry out the
purposes of this division.91.8303.2.  Each such application shall be signed by
the person owning or having legal control of the site upon which the building or
structure is to be relocated, and prior to any appeal or the issuance of any
permit there shall be filed fully delineated working drawings, electrical and
mechanical plans and complete specifications.  Such working drawings, plans and
specifications shall show all new construction, materials, fixtures and fittings
and any alterations, repairs or additions to be made to existing construction. 
Such plans shall also include floor plans, elevations and necessary construction
details so as to show conformity with the intent of this ordinance.  Such
drawings, plans and specifications shall, in addition to the requirements of
Section 91.106.3.3 of this Code, show all site preparation, grading and
improvements.	The applicant shall assume all responsibility for the preparation
and completeness of said plans.  In the event the City elects to complete the
building or to demolish the building under the provisions of the Municipal Code,
the City reserves the right to interpret errors or omissions or supply missing
information on the plans.  The City shall not be responsible for the
performance of the work done under any contract entered into to complete or
demolish the building.91.8303.3.  Any lot within the City from which a building
or structure is moved shall be cleared of all debris resulting from such
removal.  The footings and foundation walls shall be removed to grade and the
lot shall be graded as necessary to provide drainage to a street, gutter or
other approved location.  A demolition permit shall be secured by the owner to
authorize this work.
