                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

GENERAL. (§ 91.8901)

  GENERAL.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 171,175, Eff. 7/25/96.)91.8901.1.  Purpose of Division. 
It is the purpose of the provisions of this division to provide a just,
equitable and practicable method, to be cumulated with and in addition to any
other remedy available by law, whereby buildings, structures, premises and
portions thereof which are within the scope of this division may be vacated,
secured, cleaned, repaired, demolished or removed.91.8901.2.  Scope.  The
provisions of this division shall apply to all existing buildings, structures,
premises and portions thereof which are a nuisance, a hazard or a substandard
residential building.	All sections of Chapter IX of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code are applicable to those buildings determined to be “substandard
residential buildings” as defined herein.	The Department of Building and
Safety may approve certain deviations from the requirements of Chapter IX of the
Los Angeles Municipal Code concerning substandard residential buildings,
provided the items concerned were built in compliance with code or ordinance
provisions in effect at the time of construction, and provided, further, that
such additional corrections as may be required by the Department are made so as
to ensure that the building complies with the intent of the
division.91.8901.3.  Interference Prohibited.  It shall be unlawful for any
person to obstruct, impede or interfere with any representative of the
Department, including contractors hired by the Department or with the inspector
of any Department of this city, or with any person who owns or holds any estate
or interest in any building or structure which has been ordered to be vacated,
secured, cleaned, repaired, demolished or removed, or with any person to whom
such building or structure has been lawfully sold pursuant to the provisions of
this division whenever any such representative of the Department, inspector,
purchaser or person having an interest or estate in such building or structure
is engaged in inspecting, securing, cleaning, vacating, repairing, demolishing
or removing any such building or structure pursuant to the provisions of this
division, or in performing any necessary act preliminary to or incidental to
such work, or authorized or directed pursuant hereto.91.8901.4.  Liability of
Officers or Employees of the City.91.8901.4.1.  City Employees Not Personally
Liable.  No officer, agent, or employee of the City of Los Angeles shall be
personally liable for any damage incurred or alleged to be incurred as a result
of any act required, permitted or authorized to be done or performed in the
discharge of his or her duties pursuant to this division.91.8901.4.2.  Suits to
be Defended by City Attorney.  Any suit brought against any officer, agent or
employee of the City of Los Angeles as a result of any act required, permitted
or authorized in the discharge of his or her duties under this division shall be
deemed an action against the City and shall be defended by the City
Attorney.91.8901.5.  Other Provisions of the Municipal Code Unaffected
Hereby.  The provisions of this division shall not be deemed to repeal by
implication any other provision of the Los Angeles Municipal Code and the
adoption hereof shall not be deemed to affect or diminish the power or authority
of an officer or employee of the City to condemn any building or structure
erected or maintained in violation of any other provisions of said
code.91.8901.6.  Separability of Provisions of This Division.  The City
Council hereby declares that it would have adopted each separate provision of
this division, regardless of the adoption of any other provision, and if any
remedy provided for in this division be held unavailable or limited in effect,
such limitation shall not affect the application of any other provision of this
division.91.8901.7.  Unless otherwise expressly provided, the remedies or
penalties provided by this division are cumulative to each other and to the
remedies or penalties available under law.	The provisions set forth in Article 8
of this chapter shall not apply to proceedings conducted pursuant to this
division.  However, the Superintendent and the Board may utilize the procedures
described therein, to the extent necessary to assure that an owner has a full
and fair opportunity to present evidence relevant to the abatement of the public
nuisance conditions on that owner’s property.91.8901.8.  Wherever service is
required in this division, that service may be accomplished by personal service
as authorized in Sections 415.10, 415.20, and 415.21 of the California Code of
Civil Procedure.
