                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ENFORCEMENT. (§ 91.8102)

  ENFORCEMENT.
	(Added by Ord. No. 171,175, Eff. 7/25/96.)91.8102.1.  General.  It shall be
unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect, construct, enlarge,
alter, repair, maintain, move, improve, remove, convert, demolish, equip, use or
occupy any existing building, structure, premises or portion thereof in
violation of the provisions of this division.	Any person who violates or causes
or permits another person to violate any provision or requirement of this
division is guilty of a misdemeanor.  Any person includes an owner, lessor,
sublessor, manager or person in control of a building subject to this
division.  The legal owner of a building is that person, firm, corporation,
partnership or other entity whose name or title appears on record with the Los
Angeles County Recorder’s Office.91.8102.2.  Occupant Responsibility.  It
shall be unlawful for any tenant or other individual occupying any dwelling
unit, efficiency dwelling unit, guest room or suite in a building to fail to
keep the dwelling unit, efficiency dwelling unit, guest room or suite free from
an accumulation of debris, filth, rubbish and garbage.91.8102.3.  Penalties. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 172,592, Eff. 6/28/99, Oper. 7/1/99.)  Any person
convicted of a misdemeanor due to violation of any provision or requirement of
this division is subject to penalties as prescribed by Section 11.00(m) of the
Los Angeles Municipal Code, which is quoted in part as follows:	“Every
violation of this Code is punishable as a misdemeanor unless provision is
otherwise herein made, shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000.00
or by imprisonment in the County Jail for a period of not more than six months,
or by both such fine and imprisonment.	Every violation of this Code which is
provided for therein to be an infraction is punishable by a fine as set forth in
this Code section, or as otherwise provided in this Code, not to exceed $50.00
for the first violation, $100.00 for a second violation of the same provision
within one year, and $250.00 for each additional violation of the same provision
within one year.	Each person shall be guilty of a separate offense for each and
every day during any portion of which any violations of any provision of this
Code is committed, continued or permitted by such person and shall be punishable
accordingly.”	Nothing in this division or Code shall prohibit the payment of
investigative costs by any person so convicted of any provision of this
division, to the Department of Building and Safety to restitute said agency for
all costs expended to investigate and/or enforce the provisions of this Code.
