                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR VACANT PROPERTY GRAFFITI REMOVAL. (§ 91.8904)

  SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR VACANT PROPERTY GRAFFITI REMOVAL.
	(Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 171,175, Eff. 7/25/96.)91.8904.1. 
Duties of the Owner of Vacant Property.  (Amended by Ord. No. 180,619, Eff.
5/12/09.)  It shall be unlawful for the owner or person in control to permit
the accumulation of trash, debris, vehicle parts, rubbish, excessive vegetation
or other similar nuisance conditions on a parcel or in and around any building
or structure located on a parcel.  The Department may order the fencing of such
a parcel in the manner described below.	It shall be unlawful for the owner or
person in control of a parcel of land, to allow to exist a vacant building or
structure which is open to unauthorized entry on that land. The entire building
or structure shall be securely maintained.  The owner or person in control of a
vacant building, structure, or lot which is open to unauthorized entry shall
secure all openings, accessible for entry from the exterior of the building or
structure, and where appropriate, the entire lot itself, with one of the
following methods:	1.	Minimum 3/4-inch exterior grade plywood.  The plywood
shall have a positive connection to the building or structure using minimum
1/2-inch bolts which shall not be removable from the outside.	2.	Minimum
16-gauge steel mesh attached to a minimum one inch by 1/8-inch angle iron
frame.  The frame shall have a positive connection to the building or structure
using minimum 1/2-inch bolts which shall not be removable from the
outside.	3.	Other means of barricading as directed or approved by the Department
including wrought iron fencing of the lot.  The Department may, working in
cooperation with the Police Department, develop standards for alternative
fencing.	Unless directed otherwise by the Department, the owner or person in
control also shall erect a ten foot high, unobstructed, chainlink fence complete
with lockable gates.  The fence, once constructed, shall become the property of
the owner of the property upon which it is constructed and, all structures on
the property, including the fence shall be maintained in good repair.  In the
event that the fence or other barriers cannot be maintained in good repair, the
Department may order an alternative method of barricading.  The property so
fenced shall be conspicuously posted with a “No Trespassing” sign pursuant
to Section 41.24 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.	It shall also be unlawful
for the owner or person in control to allow to exist any graffiti on any walls,
temporary or permanent structures, places, or other surfaces when that graffiti,
as defined in Section 49.84.2 of this Code, is visible from a public street or
other public or private property.  (Amended by Ord. No. 180,708, Eff.
7/6/09.)	Owners, whose property displays graffiti, shall completely remove the
graffiti by washing, sandblasting or chemical treatment or shall completely and
uniformly cover or otherwise obscure the graffiti with paint or other approved
materials.	It is unlawful to maintain a swimming pool in violation of Sections
91.6407 and 91.6405.16 of this Code.  The ten foot high chainlink fence
described above may be used to comply with Section 91.6407 of this Code.  The
swimming pool water shall be removed if the property is vacant.91.8904.1.1. 
Procedure for Securing Vacant Property and Removing Graffiti – Notification. 
The City Council finds that the following conditions constitute a public
nuisance:  the maintenance of vacant buildings or structures open to
unauthorized entry; the storage and accumulation of trash, debris, vehicle parts
or other items prohibited under Section 91.8904 of the this Code; and the
maintenance of vacant or occupied property with graffiti visible from a public
street or alley as described by Section 91.8904 of this Code.	If the property
owner or person in control consents to the removal of the graffiti, the City may
enter upon the property and remove such graffiti.	If the owner or person in
control refuses to remove the graffiti, or if any of the public nuisance
conditions above-described exist, then the Department of Building and Safety may
issue an order by certified mail, return receipt requested, or may deposit an
order in the United States mail in a sealed envelope, postage prepaid, to the
owner as shown on the last equalized assessment roll to abate these
conditions.  A copy of the order shall also be posted on the subject
property.  The order may give no more than ten days from the date the notice
was mailed to perform the work.	However, if the order is served by way of
personal service, the order may give no more than five days from the date the
order was served to perform the work.91.8904.1.2  Abatement by the City. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 172,702, Eff. 8/16/99.)  In the event the nuisance,
including graffiti, is not removed or otherwise eliminated or abated by the date
specified in the notice, the City, or its contractor, may enter upon the parcel
and remove or eliminate the nuisance.  Abatement may be accomplished by
contract or work order and may be performed by a private contractor submitting a
competitive sealed bid, a public entity performing under a Memorandum of
Understanding or by means of an Annual Awarded Contract.	For the purposes of
this section, an Annual Awarded Contract shall mean one or more 12-month
contracts awarded by the Department after competitive bidding.  The contracts
may be based upon both stipulated prices and unit cost for the fencing of vacant
or vacated property; for removal of graffiti visible from a public street or
alley; for draining swimming pools; for the securing of vacant buildings open to
unauthorized entry; for the removal of debris, rubbish, excessive vegetation,
weed abatement or similar nuisance conditions on property containing a vacant
building or vacant lots, when and as directed by the Department by means of a
work order.  No work order shall be executed except in conjunction with the
necessary contract or contracts.	If abatement is performed by a City department
other than the Department of Building and Safety, that department shall bill the
owner for the cost of removal, or other elimination or abatement of the
nuisance, including administrative costs.  An itemized written report showing
the date and cost of abatement work done by the City or its contractor shall be
submitted to the Department.  Payment for the cost of abatement and recovery of
the cost from the property owner shall be pursuant to Section 91.8906 of this
Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 175,596, Eff. 12/7/03.)	If the building again
becomes open to unauthorized entry, or graffiti is again visible from a public
street or alley, or the building’s premises or vacant parcel again contain
debris, rubbish, excessive vegetation or other similar nuisance conditions, the
Department may, upon 3 days notice to the owner, execute a contract or work
order to have the required work performed by one of the methods provided by this
section.  The cost of performing the work may be paid from the “Repair and
Demolition Fund” as established in Section 91.8906 of this Code.  Further,
the provisions of Sections 91.8903.4, 91.8903.5 and 91.8903.6 shall apply to
this section.	The above abatement procedures are in addition to any other remedy
the Department may choose to pursue to eliminate the nuisance conditions.	This
section may also be used to abate graffiti that is observable from a public
road, public right-of-way, or other property that is freely open to the public,
as defined in Section 49.84.2 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 180,708, Eff. 7/6/09.)	If at the time of removal of the graffiti the
owner or occupants object, then the City will immediately obtain the necessary
consent, warrants, or court order prior to completion of the graffiti removal. 
This section should not be administered in any way that would violate the
constitutional rights of any person.91.8904.2.  Abatement of Vacant Buildings
or Structures that are Open to Unauthorized Entry and Fire Damaged or Repeatedly
Used for Illegal Purposes.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,175, Eff.
7/25/96.)91.8904.2.1 (Amended by Ord. No. 172,413, Eff. 2/20/99.)  Any vacant
buildings open to unauthorized entry, which become fire damaged or used
repeatedly by vagrants and gang members or for other illegal purposes without
the owner’s permission, constitute a public nuisance.  The expeditious repair
or demolition of such vacant buildings and attached or detached appurtenances is
essential in order to eliminate fire hazards, and public nuisance conditions
which adversely affect the public safety and have a blighting effect on the
neighborhood.  It is the purpose of this section to establish a fair and
expeditious procedure which may be used in connection with those buildings and
attached or detached appurtenances.91.8904.2.2.  Procedures.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 175,596, Eff. 12/7/03.)  The Department may declare a vacant building to be
a public nuisance building under the following circumstances:	1.	The vacant
building has been secured pursuant to Section 91.8904.1;	2.	It has subsequently
become open to unauthorized entry; and	3.	It has become fire damaged or is used
repeatedly without the owner’s permission by vagrants, criminals, or gangs or
for other illegal purposes.	If the Department determines that a vacant building
is a public nuisance building as defined in this section, then the Department
may proceed to abate the public nuisance building utilizing the procedures set
forth in Sections 91.8907.2, 91.8907.3 and 91.8907.4 of this Code.  The cost of
any work done by the City or its contractor to abate the nuisance may be
collected from the property owner in accordance with the procedures set forth in
Section 91.8906.	A copy of any order issued pursuant to this section shall be
provided to the Fire Department and Police Department.91.8904.3.  Inspection
Fee for Periodic Inspection of Property and Buildings.  (Amended by Ord. No.
175,596, Eff. 12/7/03.)  Whenever the Department determines after notice and
hearing that a property or building requires a monthly inspection in order to
abate a public nuisance and encourage future maintenance in compliance with
applicable codes, the Department may inspect monthly and assess fees pursuant to
Section 98.0412 of this Code.  These fees shall be imposed annually when the
nuisance condition is abated by the City pursuant to this division but not more
than once during any twelve month period.	The notice of hearing and intent to
impose the annual fee shall be mailed to the owner as listed on the last
equalized assessment roll or supplemental roll.  The matter shall be scheduled
for hearing before the Board of Building and Safety Commissioners on the date
specified on the notice.  The Board shall determine whether the conditions and
previous record of public nuisance conditions and failure to comply with the
Code justify the imposition of the annual fee and monthly inspection.	The
monthly inspection may be accomplished by contract or work order and may be
performed by a private contractor submitting a sealed bid or by means of an
Annual Awarded Monitoring Contract.  An Annual Awarded Monitoring Contract
shall mean one or more 12-month contracts awarded by the Department after
competitive bidding.  Payment for the cost of monthly inspections shall be made
from the Repair and Demolition Fund.  Any payments received as a result of the
annual fee imposed pursuant to this subsection shall be deposited into the
Repair and Demolition Fund.  The property owner’s failure to pay this fee may
result in a lien against the property pursuant to Sections 91.8906.2 of this
Code.
