                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ABATEMENT OF PUBLIC NUISANCE CONDITIONS RELATED TO A DECLARED LOCAL EMERGENCY.
(§ 91.8907)

  ABATEMENT OF PUBLIC NUISANCE CONDITIONS RELATED TO A DECLARED LOCAL
EMERGENCY.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 171,175, Eff. 7/25/96.)91.8907.1.  Declaration of
Purpose.  Both the expeditious cleanup of the debris and the removal of
irreparably damaged buildings resulting from declared local emergencies are
essential in order to eliminate public nuisance conditions which may adversely
affect the public health, safety and welfare.  It is the purpose of this
section to establish a fair and expeditious procedure which may be utilized in
connection with declared local emergencies for the abatement of public
nuisances, which includes hazardous buildings and debris.	Accordingly, the
Department is hereby authorized to issue orders requiring property owners to
abate public nuisances.  The Department is also authorized to cause the
demolition of hazardous buildings and to remove the debris, rubbish or other
dangerous or injurious materials; or to take other action as necessary to abate
public nuisance conditions, and to cause the cost of the demolition, removal or
abatement to become a special lien against the property.  (Amended by Ord. No.
179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)	The terms “nuisance” and “hazardous
buildings” are defined in Section 91.8902.  As used in this section, the term
“debris” includes burned or partially burned building materials, members, or
portions thereof, ash, damaged appliances, broken concrete, loose bricks, glass,
metal and downed trees.	This procedure is in addition to any other procedure
that is currently authorized for abatement of such public nuisances. 
Notwithstanding any provision of this section, the Department may at any time
exercise its lawful authority to summarily and immediately abate public
nuisances pursuant to Section 91.8905.91.8907.2.  Notice.  Whenever the
Department discovers the existence of a public nuisance, including debris and
hazardous buildings, the Department may issue an order for the premises upon
which the nuisance is discovered to the person listed as the owner of the
premises, based on the last equalized assessment roll or supplemental roll.  A
copy of the order shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the parcel or
premises, and a copy shall also be mailed to the person listed as the owner
based on the last equalized assessment roll or supplemental roll.  The failure
of any owner or other person to receive such notice shall not affect in any
manner the validity of any of the proceedings taken thereunder.  Proof of
giving any notice may be made by an affidavit of any employee of the City, which
shows service in conformity with this section.  The order shall
indicate:	1.	The street address, or the approximate street address if no street
address has been assigned, of the property on which the nuisance exists;	2.	That
the condition on the premises as described in the order constitutes a public
nuisance;	3.	That the owner or owner’s agent is required to obtain all
necessary permits to abate the public nuisance within 10 days from the date of
the order, and to commence and complete all necessary work within 30 days from
the date of the order;	4.	That the owner must appear at a hearing conducted by
the Board, at a time, date and location specified in the order, which shall be
at least 15 days from the date of the order;	5.	That upon any such appearance
the owner will be given the opportunity to present and to elicit testimony and
other evidence to show cause why the alleged nuisance should not be abated by
the owner or by the City using its own forces or through contract;	6.	That such
appearance may be made by the submission of written materials if they have been
received by the City at least three days prior to the scheduled hearing at the
mailing address specified in the order;	7.	That if a public nuisance is found to
exist on the property and the owner fails to abate that nuisance, then the
Department has the authority to cause the demolition of hazardous buildings and
removal of debris, rubbish or other dangerous or injurious materials as
necessary to abate public nuisance conditions;	8.	That the cost of abatement of
the public nuisance by the City may become a special lien against the
premises.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper.
1/1/08.).91.8907.3.  Pre-abatement Hearing.91.8907.3.1.  The matter shall be
scheduled for hearing before the Board on the date and time specified in the
order.  The Board shall proceed to determine whether the conditions existing on
the premises constitute a public nuisance.91.8907.3.2.  The person notified to
appear, or the actual owner of the parcel or premises in the event the person
notified is not the owner, or any person representing the owner, who attends the
hearing, shall be given an opportunity to present and to elicit testimony and
any other evidence on whether a public nuisance exists, and to show cause why
the alleged nuisance conditions should not be abated by the owner or by the City
using its own forces or through contract.  The Board shall proceed with the
hearing whether or not such person is in attendance.  Written material shall be
considered by the Board if it is received three days prior to the scheduled
hearing.91.8907.3.3.  At the conclusion of the hearing, the Board shall make a
finding and determine whether the premises are a public nuisance, and how much
additional time, if any, should be given to the owner for compliance with the
Department’s order.  Once the Board has acted, it shall have no further
jurisdiction over any matter relating to the abatement of the nuisance
conditions on the premises.  Any future determinations in this regard,
including nuisance abatement actions or requests for extensions of time, shall
be within the sole jurisdiction and discretion of the Superintendent of Building
and not appealable to the Board.91.8907.3.4.  The owner and any other person
who appeared at the scheduled hearing on behalf of the owner, either in person
or by the submission of written material, shall be notified in writing of the
determination of the Board.91.8907.4.  Abatement.  (Amended by Ord. No.
175,596, Eff. 12/7/03.)  If the Board finds that a public nuisance exists, and
if the Department determines that permits were not obtained, or that the
nuisance was not removed or otherwise abated by the dates specified in the
order, then the City or its contractor may enter upon the premises to demolish
hazardous buildings, monitor or remove asbestos, remove debris, rubbish or other
dangerous or injurious materials, and take other action as necessary to abate
the nuisance.  The work may be accomplished by any City department with the
forces to perform the work, upon receipt of a request from the Department, or by
any forces under contract to the City.  Further, if the work qualifies, then it
may be done as part of the City-sponsored demolition and debris removal program
approved in concept by the City Council on May 22, 1992.	Where the work is
accomplished by other than City forces, the cost may be paid from the Repair and
Demolition Fund as established in Section 91.8906.  All costs incurred pursuant
to this section shall be a personal obligation against the owner of the property
upon which the nuisance is located, recoverable by the City in an action before
any court of competent jurisdiction.  These costs shall include an amount equal
to 40 percent of the cost to perform the actual work, but not less than the sum
of $100.00, to cover the City’s costs for administering any contract and
supervising the work required, unless the work is necessitated by an event or
course of events that prompts the declaration of a local emergency by the
Mayor.  In addition to this personal obligation and all other remedies provided
by law, the City may collect any judgment, fee, cost, or charge, including any
permit fees, fines, late charges, or interest, incurred in relation to the
provisions of this section as provided in Los Angeles Administrative Code
Sections 7.35.1 through 7.35.8.
