                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

GENERAL. (§ 91.8501)

  GENERAL.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 176,673, Eff. 7/6/05.)91.8501.1.  Purpose.  The purpose
of this division is to provide alternative building standards for the conversion
of Existing Buildings, or portions thereof, from commercial or industrial uses
to Joint Living and Work Quarters.  The alternative standards are designed to
provide a reasonable level of safety to the building occupants, and are in
conformance with the provisions of Section 17958.11 of the Health and Safety
Code.91.8501.2.  Application.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,133, Eff. 5/11/10.) 
Nothing in this division shall be construed to allow the reduction of the
seismic or fire and life safety elements of an Existing Building, where such
elements provide a greater level of protection than the minimum requirements
established by this division.	The alternative building standards of this
division may be applied when the commercial or industrial uses in an Existing
Building are converted (change of use or occupancy) to Joint Living and Work
Quarters provided:	A.	Fire and Life Safety Requirements for All Existing
Buildings.  All Existing Buildings that are converted to Joint Living and Work
Quarters shall comply or be made to comply with all of the building area,
height, number of stories, type of construction, occupancy, means of egress and
other fire and life safety requirements of this code for a new building of the
same use or occupancy, except as provided in this division.	B.	Structural
Requirements for Division 88 Buildings.  For Existing Buildings which are
within the scope of Division 88, a change of occupancy or use of any portion of
a building constructed prior to October 6, 1933 to a Joint Living and Work
Quarters may be permitted provided the building complies or is made to comply
with the structural requirements of Section 91.8502.12.1 of this
division.	C.	Structural Requirements for Existing Buildings Other than Division
88 Buildings.  For all other buildings, the change of occupancy or use of any
portion of an Existing Building to a Joint Living and Work Quarters may be
permitted provided the entire building complies or is made to comply with all
the structural requirements of this code for a new building, except as provided
in Section 91.8502.12 of this division.91.8501.3.  Definition.  For the
purpose of this division, certain terms are defined as
follows:	ARTIST-IN-RESIDENCE is an artist or artists using a space within a
building for combined living and artistic working purposes.	EXISTING BUILDING is
a building for which a building permit was issued prior to April 1, 1994.	FEMA
351, “RECOMMENDED SEISMIC EVALUATION AND UPGRADE CRITERIA FOR EXISTING WELDED
STEEL MOMENT-FRAME BUILDINGS” is the July 2000 edition prepared by the
partnership of the Structural Engineers Association of California, the Applied
Technology Council, and the California Universities for Research in Earthquake
Engineering (SAC) Joint Venture for the Federal Emergency Management Agency,
Washington, DC.	FEMA 352, “RECOMMENDED POST-EARTHQUAKE EVALUATION AND REPAIR
CRITERIA FOR WELDED STEEL MOMENT-FRAME BUILDINGS” is the June 2000 edition
prepared by the partnership of the Structural Engineers Association of
California, the Applied Technology Council, and the California Universities for
Research in Earthquake Engineering (SAC) Joint Venture for the Federal Emergency
Management Agency, Washington, DC.	FEMA 356, “PRESTANDARD AND COMMENTARY FOR
THE SEISMIC REHABILI-TATION OF BUILDINGS” is the November 2000 edition
prepared by the partnership of the Structural Engineers Association of
California, the Applied Technology Council, and the California Universities for
Research in Earthquake Engineering (SAC) Joint Venture for the Federal Emergency
Management Agency, Washington, DC.	GUIDELINES FOR SEISMIC RETROFIT OF EXISTING
BUILDINGS is the July 2001 edition of the Guidelines for Seismic Retrofit of
Existing Buildings, published by the International Conference of Building
Officials, 5360 Workman Mill Road, Whittier, California 90601-2298.	JOINT LIVING
AND WORK QUARTERS is a residential occupancy of one or more rooms or floors used
as a dwelling unit with adequate work space reserved for, and regularly used by,
one or more persons residing there pursuant to Health and Safety Code (H&#038;S)
Section 17958.11(a).  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,133, Eff. 5/11/10.)	QUALIFIED
HISTORICAL BUILDING is any building deemed of importance to the history,
architecture or culture of any area by an appropriate local, state or federal
governmental jurisdiction.  This shall include designated buildings on, or
determined eligible for, official national, state or local historical registers
or official inventories, such as the National Register of Historic Places,
California Register of Historical Resources, State Historical Landmarks, State
Points of Historical Interest, and officially adopted city or county registers,
inventories, or surveys of historical or architecturally significant sites,
places or landmarks.	STATE HISTORICAL BUILDING CODE is a set of code standards
known as Part 8, Title 24 of the California Code of Regulations and published as
the California Historical Building Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,324, Eff.
12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)91.8501.4.  General.  A Joint Living and Work Quarters
shall not be used for public sales purposes or for instructional classes when
either is inconsistent with residential use.  No hazardous activities such as,
but not limited to, welding, open flame, or storage of flammable liquids shall
occur in the Joint Living and Work Quarters.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,133,
Eff. 5/11/10.)	EXCEPTION:  In buildings three stories or less in height,
activities such as welding, open flame, or minimal storage of flammable liquids
may be allowed provided written approval is obtained from the Fire
Department.	All buildings containing a Joint Living and Work Quarters shall have
a sign posted in a conspicuous location at each entrance to the building.  The
sign shall be constructed of a durable weatherproof material and shall meet the
requirements of Los Angeles Fire Department Standard No. 58.  In the lower
white diamond of the sign, a red colored letter “A” shall be placed so as to
meet the size and letter thickness specified in the Los Angeles Fire Department
Standard No. 58.	If any portion of an Existing Building is converted to a Joint
Living and Work Quarters, then the entire building, including any portion not
being converted, shall comply with all of the requirements of the code for a new
building of the same use and type of construction except as provided in this
division.
