                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEFAULT IN PERFORMANCE OF CONDITIONS OR TERMS OF PERMITS – FAILURE TO
COMPLETE. (§ 91.8307)

  DEFAULT IN PERFORMANCE OF CONDITIONS OR TERMS OF PERMITS – FAILURE TO
COMPLETE.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 171,175, Eff. 7/25/96.)91.8307.1.  Whenever the
Department of Building and Safety finds that:	1.	A building has not been lowered
onto its foundation within 60 days after issuance of the relocation permit;
or	2.	A default has occurred in the performance of any term or condition of the
relocation permit; or	3.	The applicant has failed to complete the work required
as specified by the permit, plans and/or specifications approved for the project
within the time prescribed, the Department shall be authorized to give notice to
the applicant and to the surety, if any, to complete the work or perform the
condition within a specified additional time, not to exceed 60 days.  Such
notice shall be served upon the applicant and the surety, if any, by certified
mail, and shall be deemed to have been so served when placed in the United
States mail, postage prepaid and addressed to such person.  No person shall
fail or refuse to comply with such notice.  However, such notice may be
complied with by demolishing and removing the building or structure and
restoring the site within the time prescribed, at the option of the applicant or
the surety, as the case may be.91.8307.2.  If the applicant or the surety fails
or refuses to comply with any notice within the time prescribed, the Department
shall be authorized to cause the building or structure to be demolished or the
work to be completed, whichever it shall determine is reasonable under the
circumstances, without further notice or order.  The cost of completing the
work or demolishing the building, including the cost of any monitoring or
removal of asbestos, plus the 40 percent administration and supervision cost,
shall be paid for out of the cash deposit or negotiable United States Treasury
Certificates posted with the Department, or from the Repair and Demolition Fund,
if no deposit or certificate has been posted.  All sums used for this purposes
out of the Repair and Demolition Fund shall be recovered from the surety under
the surety bond provided for above.  Any work to be performed by the Department
under the provisions of this section shall be done in accordance with the
established public works practices of the City of Los Angeles.  If the
Department uses any money in the Repair and Demolition Fund for the completion
or demolition of any building under the provisions of this section, the
Department shall notify the surety, and the surety shall immediately thereafter
reimburse the City of Los Angeles therefor under the surety bond.  The City
Attorney is authorized to and shall institute any action necessary to the
recovery of the money under the surety bond provided for above.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 175,596, Eff. 12/7/03.)
