                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR VACATING, BARRICADING, REMOVING OR DEMOLISHING BUILDINGS
OR STRUCTURES WITHOUT NOTICE. (§ 91.8905)

  SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR VACATING, BARRICADING, REMOVING OR DEMOLISHING
BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES WITHOUT NOTICE.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 171,175, Eff. 7/25/96.)91.8905.1.  Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary in this section, whenever the Department determines
that any building, structure, premises or portion thereof falling within the
scope of this division is a present, imminent, extreme and immediate hazard or
danger to life or limb, health or safety, so as to necessitate the immediate
elimination thereof without prior notice to the owner, the Department may,
without an order or notice of any kind whatsoever and without a hearing, cause
the building, structure or premises or any portion thereof to be immediately
vacated, barricaded, removed or demolished by such means as the Department may
deem advisable, including the use of the Department’s annual awarded
demolition contractor.91.8905.2.  Buildings or structures which are vacated
pursuant to this section shall be locked and otherwise secured against ingress
and the Department shall post thereon, in a conspicuous place near the entrance,
a placard warning the building is unsafe.	Any warning placard posted pursuant to
this section shall not be defaced, covered, removed, or hidden from view in any
manner.91.8905.3.  (Amended by Ord. No. 175,596, Eff. 12/7/03.)  The
Department may cause the building, structure or premises or any portion of the
building, structure or premises to be immediately barricaded, removed or
demolished.  The barricading, removal or demolition, including any monitoring
or removal of asbestos, may be accomplished by any City department with the
forces to perform the work, upon receipt of a request from the Department, or by
any forces under contract to the City.  Where the work is accomplished either
by contract or City forces, the cost shall be paid from the “Repair and
Demolition Fund” as established in Section 91.8906.	All costs incurred
pursuant to this section shall be a personal obligation against the property
owner upon which the particular building or structure or any portion is located,
recoverable by the City in an action before any court of competent
jurisdiction.  These costs shall include an amount equal to 40 percent of the
cost to perform the actual work, but not less than the sum of $100.00, to cover
the City’s costs for administering any contract and supervising the work
required.  In addition to this personal obligation and all other remedies
provided by law, the City may collect any judgment, fee, cost, or charge,
including any permit fees, fines, late charges, or interest, incurred in
relation to the provisions of this section as provided in Los Angeles
Administrative Code Sections 7.35.1 through 7.35.8.91.8905.4.  The
administrative fee of 40 percent of the costs shall not be included in the
calculation of costs incurred for or arising out of any barricading, removal or
demolition resulting from an event or course of events that prompted a
declaration of a state of emergency, local emergency, war emergency or major
disaster by the Mayor, the Governor of the State, or by the President of the
United States.  (Amended by Ord. No. 175,596, Eff. 12/7/03.)91.8905.5. 
(Repealed by Ord. No. 175,596, Eff. 12/7/03.)
