                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

INFORMATION REQUIRED ON PLANS. (§ 91.8810)

  INFORMATION REQUIRED ON PLANS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 171,175, Eff. 7/25/96.)91.8810.1.  General.  In addition
to the seismic analysis required elsewhere in this division, the licensed
engineer or architect responsible for the seismic analysis of the building shall
determine and record the information required by this section on the approved
plans.91.8810.2.  Construction Details.  (Amended by Ord. No. 172,592, Eff.
6/28/99, Oper. 7/1/99.)  The following requirements, with appropriate
construction details, shall be made part of the approved plans:	1.	All
unreinforced masonry walls shall be anchored at the roof and ceiling levels by
tension bolts through the wall as specified in Table No. 88-I, or by an approved
equivalent at a maximum anchor spacing of six feet (1829 mm).  Anchors
installed in accordance with Section 91.8114 of this Code shall be accepted as
conforming to this requirement.	All unreinforced masonry walls shall be anchored
at all floors and ceiling with tension bolts through the wall or by existing rod
anchors at a maximum anchor spacing of six feet (1829 mm).  All existing rod
anchors shall be secured to the joists to develop the required forces.  The
Department may require testing to verify the adequacy of the embedded ends of
existing rod anchors.  Tests, when required, shall conform to Section
91.8809.8.	EXCEPTION:  Walls need not be anchored to ceiling systems that,
because of their low mass and/or relative location with respect to the floor or
roof systems, would not impose significant normal forces on the wall and cause
out-of-plane wall failures.	At the roof and all floor levels, the anchors
nearest the building corners shall be combination shear and tension anchors
located not more than two feet (610 mm) horizontally from the inside corners of
the walls.	When access to the exterior face of the masonry wall is prevented by
proximity of an existing building, wall anchors conforming to Items 5 and 7 in
Table No. 88-I may be used.	Alternative devices to be used in lieu of tension
bolts for masonry wall anchorage shall be tested as specified in Section
91.8809.9.	2.	Diaphragm chord stresses of horizontal diaphragms shall be
developed in existing materials or by addition of new materials.	3.	Where
trusses and beams other than rafters or joists are supported on masonry,
independent secondary columns shall be installed to support vertical loads of
the roof or floor members.	4.	(Amended by Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper.
1/1/08.)  Parapets and exterior wall appendages not capable of resisting the
forces specified in this division shall be removed, stabilized or braced to
ensure that the parapets and appendages remain in their original position.	The
maximum height of an unbraced, unreinforced masonry parapet above the lower of
either the level of tension anchors or roof sheathing shall not exceed one and
one half times the thickness of the parapet wall.  If the required parapet
height exceeds this maximum height, a bracing system designed for the force
factors specified in Table Nos. 88-E and 88-F for walls shall support the top of
the parapet.  Parapet corrective work must be performed in conjunction with the
installation of tension roof anchors.	5.	All deteriorated mortar joints in
unreinforced masonry walls shall be pointed with Type S or N mortar.  Prior to
any pointing, the wall surface must be raked and cleaned to remove loose and
deteriorated mortar.  All preparation and pointing shall be done under the
continuous inspection of a registered deputy inspector certified to inspect
masonry or concrete.  At the conclusion of the project, the inspector shall
submit a written report to the Department setting forth the portion of work
inspected.	6.	Repair details of any cracked or damaged unreinforced masonry wall
required to resist forces specified in this division.91.8810.3.  Existing
Construction.  The following existing construction information shall be made a
part of the approved plans:	1.	The type and dimensions of existing walls and the
size and spacing of floor and roof members.	2.	The extent and type of existing
wall anchorage to floors and roof.	3.	The extent and type of parapet corrections
which were performed in accordance with Section 91.8114 of this
Code.	4.	Accurately dimensioned floor plans and masonry wall elevations showing
dimensioned openings, piers, wall thickness and heights, and veneer and
anchorages.	5.	The location of cracks or damaged portions of unreinforced
masonry walls requiring repairs.	6.	The type of interior wall surfaces and
ceilings, and if reinstalling or anchoring existing plaster is necessary.	7.	The
general condition of the mortar joints and if the joints need pointing.	8.	The
location of the shear tests shall be shown on the floor plans and building wall
elevations, and the complete test report shall be reproduced on the approved
plans.
