                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

GENERAL REQUIREMENTS. (§ 91.8805)

  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 171,939, Eff. 4/15/98.)	The owner of each building within
the scope of this division shall cause a structural analysis to be made of the
building by a civil or structural engineer or architect licensed by the state of
California, and if the building does not meet the minimum earthquake standards
specified in this division, the owner shall cause it to be structurally altered
to conform to such standards or cause the building to be demolished.	The owner
of a building within the scope of this division shall comply with the
requirements set forth above by submitting to the Department for review within
the stated time limits:	1.	Within 270 days after the service of the order, a
structural analysis. Such analysis, which is subject to approval by the
Department, shall demonstrate that the building meets the minimum requirements
of this division, or	2.	Within 270 days after the service of the order, the
structural analysis and plans for the proposed structural alterations of the
building necessary to comply with the minimum requirements of this division,
or	3.	Within 120 days after service of the order, plans for the installation of
wall anchors in accordance with the requirements specified in Section 91.8808.3,
or	4.	Within 270 days after the service of the order, plans for the demolition
of the building.	After plans are submitted and approved by the Department, the
owner shall obtain a building permit, and commence and complete the required
construction or demolition within the time limits set forth in Table No. 88-B.
These time limits shall begin to run from the date the order is served in
accordance with Sections 91.8806.1 and 91.8806.2.	Owners electing to comply with
Item 3 are also required to comply with Items 2 and 4, provided, however, that
the 270 day period provided for in Items 2 and 4 and the time limits for
obtaining a building permit, commencing construction and completing construction
for complete structural alterations or building demolition set forth in Table
No. 88-B shall be extended in accordance with Table No. 88-C.  Each such
extended time limit, except the time limit for commencing construction, shall
begin to run from the date the order is served in accordance with Section
91.8806.2.  The time limit for commencing construction shall commence to run
from the date the building permit is issued.
