                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

BASIC MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR OF EXISTING BUILDINGS AND PREMISES. (§ 91.8104)

  BASIC MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR OF EXISTING BUILDINGS AND PREMISES.
	(Added by Ord. No. 171,175, Eff. 7/25/96.)	Every existing building, structure,
premises or portion thereof shall be maintained in conformity with the code
regulations and Department approvals in effect at the time of such construction
and occupancy unless specifically exempt by written approval of the
Department.	Every existing building, structure, or portion thereof shall be
maintained in a safe and sanitary condition and good repair.  The premises of
every building or structure shall be maintained in good repair and free from
graffiti, debris, rubbish, garbage, trash, overgrown vegetation or other similar
material.91.8104.1.  All physical elements of every existing building,
structure or portion thereof shall be maintained by cleaning, painting,
staining, refinishing or other restorative means, in a condition as close as
reasonably feasible to their originally required and approved state.91.8104.2. 
The interior of every existing building, structure and portion thereof and the
exterior wall surfaces and premises thereof shall be maintained clean and free
from accumulation of debris, rubbish, garbage, trash, overgrown vegetation and
other similar material.91.8104.3.  The roof of every building or structure
shall be kept waterproof and all devices which were provided to convey the roof
water from the roof shall be maintained so as to be capable of fulfilling that
purpose.91.8104.4.  The walls and ceilings of every room in every building,
structure or portion thereof shall be finished, sealed, coated, painted, or
covered in an approved manner so as to maintain them in a clean and sanitary
condition.  Loose wallpaper or other surfacing shall be removed or repaired so
as to provide a smooth, tight-fitting, clean and sanitary surface.91.8104.5.1. 
The doors, windows, cabinets, frames and similar finishes shall be finished,
sealed, coated, painted or covered in an approved manner so as to maintain them
in a clean and sanitary condition.  Broken or cracked glass or plastics shall
be replaced. Torn, worn or broken screens shall be repaired, replaced or
removed, unless removal is otherwise prohibited by the Code.91.8104.5.2. 
Legally required insect screens shall not be removed for other than repair or
replacement.91.8104.6.  The floor and floor covering of every room in every
building, structure or portion thereof shall be maintained in a clean and
sanitary condition.  The floor and covering shall be maintained free from
defects, holes, loose, worn or missing portions which could present a safety
hazard to occupants.91.8104.7.  The plumbing fixtures, shower enclosures,
wastewater drain lines, water supply lines, counters, drainboards and adjoining
wall and floor areas provided to protect against water damage in every building
or structure shall be maintained in good repair and in a clean and sanitary
condition.	Leaking drain or supply lines shall be repaired or replaced. 
Cracked, chipped or damaged fixtures shall be repaired or replaced.  All
surfaces provided to protect against water damage shall be without cracks,
defects or missing portions.  All fixtures, enclosures, counters and surfaces
shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition free from dirty or foreign
materials.91.8104.8.1.  The electrical service, lines, switches, outlets,
fixtures and fixture coverings and supports in every building or structure shall
be maintained in good repair. Broken, loose, frayed, inoperative, defective or
missing portions shall be repaired or replaced.  The fixtures, fixture
coverings, switches, and outlets shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary
condition free from dirty or foreign materials.91.8104.8.2.  Unless
specifically permitted in the National Electrical Code, flexible cords and
cables shall not be used as a substitute for the fixed wiring of a
structure.91.8104.8.3.  Panelboards and fuseholders shall not be equipped with
fuses which exceed the rated ampacity of the protected circuit.91.8104.9.  All
plumbing and waste drain lines in every building or structure shall be
maintained clear of blockages which would cause overflow at any fixture or which
would cause any fixture to overflow under the condition of normal water supply
to that fixture.91.8104.10.1.  All water supply lines to kitchen and bathroom
fixtures shall be maintained so as to provide at least one gallon per minute
rate of water flow, of at least 100o F.  However, the maximum temperature at
the water heater or storage tank need not exceed 140o F.91.8104.10.2.  Hot
water shall continue to be provided to each residential kitchen and bathroom
fixture at all times.91.8104.10.3.  No time clock or other devices shall be
installed to prevent the supply of the required hot water to residential rental
units at any time.91.8104.11.  The existing central heating or individual unit
heating for each dwelling unit or guest room shall be maintained in good repair
and operable.91.8104.12.  The exterior wall surfaces of every existing building
or structure shall be maintained weathertight, in good repair and in a clean and
sanitary condition.91.8104.13.  All fences shall be maintained in good repair
and shall be kept straight, uniform and structurally sound.  Wooden fences
shall be either painted or stained or otherwise treated or sealed in an approved
manner to prevent their becoming a nuisance from weathering or
deterioration.91.8104.14.  All masonry units shall be maintained with head, bed
and wall joints solidly filled with mortar.91.8104.15.  The exterior of all
privately owned buildings and fences shall be free from graffiti when such
graffiti is visible from a public street or alley.
