                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DETERMINATION OF THE STRESS-STRAIN RELATIONSHIP OF EXISTING UNREINFORCED
MASONRY. (§ 91.9513)

  DETERMINATION OF THE STRESS-STRAIN RELATIONSHIP OF EXISTING UNREINFORCED
MASONRY.
	(Added by Ord. No. 171,260, Eff. 8/30/96.)91.9513.1.  Scope.  This section
covers procedures for determining the expected compressive modulus, peak strain
and peak compressive stress of unreinforced brick masonry used for infills in
frame buildings.91.9513.2.  General Procedure.  The outer wythe of multiple
wythe brick masonry shall be tested by inserting two flat jacks into the mortar
joints of the outer wythe.  The prism height, the vertical distance between the
flat jacks, shall be five bricks high.  The test location shall have adequate
overburden and/or vertical confinement to resist the flat jack
forces.91.9513.3.  Preparation for the Test.  Remove a mortar joint at the top
and bottom of the test prism by saw cutting or drilling and grinding to a smooth
surface.  The cuts for inserting the flat jacks shall not have a deviation from
parallel of more than 3/8 inch (9.53 mm) The deviation from parallel shall be
measured at the ends of the flat jacks.  The width of the saw cut shall not
exceed the width of the mortar joint.  The length of the saw cut on the face of
the wall may exceed the length of the flat jacks by not more than twice the
thickness of the outer wythe plus one inch (25.4 mm).91.9513.4.  Required
Equipment.  The flat jacks shall be rectangular or with semi-circular ends to
mimic the radius of the saw blade used to cut the slot for the flat jack.  The
length of the flat jack shall be 18 inches (457 mm) maximum and 16 inches (406
mm) minimum.  This length shall be measured on longest edge of a flat jack with
semi-circular ends.  The maximum width of the flat jack shall not exceed the
average width of the wythe of brick that is loaded.  The minimum width of a
flat jack shall be 3-1/2 inches (89 mm) measured out-to-out of the flat jack. 
The flat jack shall have a minimum of two ports to allow air in the flat jack to
be replaced by hydraulic fluid.  The unused port shall be sealed after all of
the air is forced out of the flat jack.  The thickness of the flat jack shall
not exceed three-quarters of the minimum height of the mortar joint.  It is
recommended that the height of the flat jack be about one-half of the width of
the slot cut for installation of the flat jack.  The remaining space can be
filled with steel shim plates having plan dimensions equal to the flat
jack.91.9513.5.  Data Acquisition Equipment.  The strain in the tested prism
shall be recorded by gages or similar recording equipment having a minimum range
of one-ten thousandth of an inch (0.0025 mm).  The compressive strain shall be
measured on the surface of the prism and shall have a gage length, measured
vertically on the face of the prism, of 10 inches (254 mm) minimum.  The gage
points shall be fixed to the wall by drilled-in-anchors or by anchors set in
epoxy or similar material.  The support for the data recording apparatus shall
be isolated from the wall by a minimum of 1/16 inch (1.5 mm) so that the gage
length used in the calculation of strain can be taken as the measured length
between the anchors of the equipment supports.  The gaging equipment shall be
as close to the face of the prism as possible to minimize the probability of
erroneous strain measurements caused by bulging of the prism outward from its
original plane. The compressive strain data shall be measured at a minimum of
two points on the vertical face of the prism.  These points shall be the
one-third points of the length of the flat jacks plus or minus one-half inch. 
As an alternative, the strain may be measured at three points on the face of the
prism.	These points shall be spaced at one-quarter of the flat jack length plus
or minus one-half inch.	Horizontal gages at mid-height of the prism may be used
to record Poisson strain but this gage should be considered as recording data
secondary in importance to the vertical gages and its placement shall not
interfere with placing the vertical gaging as close as possible to the face of
the prism.91.9513.6.  Loading and Recording Data.  The loading shall be
applied by hydraulic pumps that add hydraulic fluid to the flat jacks in a
controlled method.  The application of load shall be incremental and held
constant while strains are being recorded.  The increasing loading for each
cycle of loading shall be divided into a minimum of four equal load
increments.  The strain shall be recorded at each load step.  The decrease in
loading shall be divided into a minimum of two equal unloading increments. 
Strain shall be recorded on the decreasing load steps.  The hydraulic pressure
shall be reduced to zero and the permanent strain caused by this cycle of
loading shall be recorded.  This procedure shall be used for each cycle of
loading. The load applied in each cycle of load shall be determined by
estimating the peak compressive stress of the existing brick masonry.  The
hydraulic pressure needed to cause this peak compressive stress in the prism
shall be calculated by assuming the area of the loaded prism is equal to the
area of the flat jack.  A maximum of one-third of this pressure, rounded to the
nearest 25 psi (172 kPa), shall be applied in the specified increments to the
peak pressure prescribed for the first cycle of loading.  After recording the
strain data, this pressure shall be reduced in a controlled manner to each of
the specified increments for unloading and for recording data.  The maximum
jack pressure on the subsequent cycles shall be one-half, two-thirds,
five-sixths and estimated peak pressure.  If the estimated peak compressive
stress is less than the existing peak compressive stress, the cyclic loading and
unloading shall continue using increments of increasing pressure equal to those
used prior to the application of estimated peak pressure.	All strain data shall
be recorded to one-ten thousandth of an inch (0.0025 mm).  Jack pressure shall
be recorded in increments of 25 psi (172 kPa) pressure.91.9513.7.  Quality
Control.  The flat jack shall be calibrated before use by placing the flat jack
between bearing plates of two inches minimum thickness in a calibrated testing
machine.  A calibration curve to convert hydraulic pressure in the flat jack to
total load shall be prepared and included in the report of the results of
testing.  Flat jacks shall be recalibrated after three uses.	The hydraulic
pressure in the flat jacks shall be indicated by a calibrated dial indicator
having a subdivision of 25 psi (172 kPa) or less.  The operator of the
hydraulic pump shall use this dial indicator to control the required increments
of hydraulic pressure in loading and unloading.91.9513.8.  Interpretation of
the Data. The data obtained from the testing required by Item D 2 of Section
91.9509.6 shall be averaged both in expected peak compressive stress and the
corresponding peak strain.  The envelope of the averaged stress-strain
relationship of all tests shall be used for the material model of the masonry in
the infilled frame.  If two strain measurements have been made on the surface
of the prism, these strain measurements shall be averaged for determination of
the stress-strain relationship for the test.  If three strain measurements have
been made on the surface of the prism, the data recorded by the center gage
shall be given a weight of two for preparing the average stress-strain
relationship for the test.
