                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ABATEMENT PROCEDURES. (§ 91.9003)

  ABATEMENT PROCEDURES.91.9003.1.  Vacate Order.  The Department shall issue
an order to vacate the property whose land use or discretionary zoning approval
has been discontinued or revoked by the Director of Planning or City Council
pursuant to Section 12.27.1 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.  Notwithstanding
the provisions of Los Angeles Municipal Code Sections 12.26 K. and 98.0403 to
the contrary, there shall be no appeal from this order.  The order shall
specify that the order applies only to that portion of the property whose land
use or discretionary zoning approval has been discontinued or
revoked.91.9003.2.  Closure Notification.  The order to vacate the property
shall be sent to the business operator, property owner, lessees, occupants, and
to all persons shown in the title report as having any ownership interest,
existing tenant(s) and person(s) in control of the property.  The order shall
state that the business operator, property owner, or person in control has 15
days from the effective date of the order to discontinue or revoke, to vacate
and secure the property until a new land use is authorized.91.9003.2.1.  Time
for Compliance.  Within 15 days of the effective date of the order, the
business operator, property owner or persons in control shall vacate and secure
the property against unauthorized entry or the Department shall institute an
enforcement action as provided in Section 91.9003.3 of this
division.	EXCEPTION:  The Department shall give the business operator, property
owner or person in control of a residential use no less than a 30-day notice and
no more than a 60-day notice to vacate and secure the property.  If the
property is subject to the Rent Stabilization Ordinance (RSO) (Sections 151.00,
et seq. of the Los Angeles Municipal Code), the business operator, property
owner or person in control may apply for an extension of time in which to
comply.  Nothing in this section is intended to supersede or abrogate the
rights of tenants provided by State statute or by the Los Angeles Housing Code
and RSO, or by any other provision of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code.91.9003.2.2.  Failure to Comply.  If the business operator, property
owner or person in control fails to maintain the property vacant and secured,
the Department shall cause the property to be vacated and secured by whatever
means the Department determines as reasonable and necessary pursuant to Section
91.9003.3 of this division.  The Department shall tell the Department of Water
and Power to disconnect utilities upon verification that there are no persons
legally entitled to occupy the property, and if necessary, may padlock,
barricade and/or fence the property.  The business operator, property owner or
person in control is responsible for all costs incurred by the Department
pursuant to this section, including the cost of inspection.  These costs shall
include an amount equal to 40 percent of the cost to perform the actual work,
but not less than the sum of $100.00 to cover the City’s costs for
administering any contract and supervising the work required.  The City may
recover these costs through an action before any court of competent
jurisdiction.91.9003.2.3.  Relocation Assistance.  Whenever the land use or
discretionary zoning approval that is revoked is a residential use, the
relocation assistance procedure of Section 12.27.1 D.2. of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code shall apply.  The Housing Department shall identify each tenant
eligible for relocation assistance, and shall issue an order requiring the
landlord to pay relocation benefits in the amounts specified in Section 151.09
G. of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.  No tenant who has caused or
substantially contributed to the nuisance activity giving rise to the order to
vacate, as determined by the Director of Planning pursuant to Section 12.27.1
D.2. of the Los Angeles Municipal Code, shall be eligible for relocation
benefits.91.9003.2.4.  Vacated Property.  No person shall reoccupy any
property pursuant to this division until the required clearance(s) and permit(s)
are obtained from this Department and the Department of City
Planning.91.9003.2.5.  Posting of Property.  When the Department orders the
owner to vacate and secure a property, the Department shall post a warning
placard or sign in a conspicuous place near the entrance.  A warning placard or
sign posted pursuant to this section shall not be removed, defaced, covered or
hidden from view in any manner.	The placard or sign shall read substantially as
follows:
  
    
      
        VACATED PROPERTY — DO NOT ENTER
BY ORDER OF THE CITY OF LOS ANGELES
It is a misdemeanor to enter, to remain, to occupy or be present unlawfully in
or on this property.  It is a misdemeanor to remove, deface, cover or hide this
placard.
Sec. 12.27.1 and Sec. 91.9003 Los Angeles Municipal Code
      
    
  
91.9003.2.6.  Recordation.  When the Department serves an order to vacate the
property as described in Section 91.9003.1 of this division, the Department
shall record with the Office of the County Recorder a document stating that the
property has been determined to be a nuisance, its present use has been vacated
and the property owner, business operator, person in control, and occupants have
been notified.After a new land use or discretionary zoning approval has been
established in compliance with all the provisions of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code, the Department shall record with the Office of the County Recorder a
document terminating the above-recorded document.91.9003.2.7.  Manner of Giving
Notice.  The orders described in this division shall be written and may be
delivered in person to the property or sent by United States mail in a sealed
envelope, postage prepaid, addressed to such person(s) at the address as shown
in the title search, the business operator, property owner and person in control
of the property, and all occupants at the time the order is issued.  Service by
mail shall be deemed to have been completed at the time of deposit in the post
office.  The failure of any owner or other person to receive such notice shall
not affect in any manner the validity of any of the proceedings taken pursuant
to this division.  Proof of giving notice may be made by an affidavit of any
employee of the City that shows service in conformity with this
section.91.9003.3.  Violations – Penalties for Disregarding Initial
Orders.91.9003.3.1.  Failure to Comply.  The business operator, property owner
or person in control of the property who fails to comply with any vacate order
pursuant to this division and to Section 12.27.1 of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code within the time limits established in this division shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.91.9003.3.2.  Any person who defaces, covers, hides, or removes any
notice or order posted as required in this division shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.91.9003.3.3.  Any person who enters, remains, occupies or is
present in a property that has been posted by the Department pursuant to this
division shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.  This prohibition shall not apply to
public officers or public employees acting within the course and scope of their
employment or in the performance of their official duties.  Notwithstanding any
other provision of Los Angeles Municipal Code to the contrary, a police officer
with the Los Angeles Police Department shall have the authority to enter any
building posted by the Department pursuant to this division, and arrest anyone
violating the vacate order.91.9003.4.  Enforcement – Noncompliance with
Department Orders.91.9003.4.1.  General.  If the owner, business operator or
person in control of the property fails to comply with an order issued pursuant
to this division within the time set, the Department may institute appropriate
action to secure compliance as provided by law for misdemeanor violations, shall
have the Department of Water and Power disconnect utilities upon verification
that there are no persons legally entitled to occupy the property, and shall
barricade, padlock, fence or secure the property by whatever means the
Department determines as reasonable and necessary.91.9003.4.2.  Notification. 
The Department shall obtain a title report listing all persons shown by the
county recorder as having an ownership interest or liens or encumbrances or
other interests in the real property.  The Department shall notify these
persons that a lien will be placed against the real property to cover the cost
of vacating and securing the property.  The notice shall advise them of their
right to a hearing.
