                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

REQUIRED INFORMATION ON PLANS. (§ 91.9307)

  REQUIRED INFORMATION ON PLANS.
	(Added by Ord. No. 172,018, Eff. 5/21/98.)91.9307.1.  General.  The plans
shall show all necessary dimensions and materials for plan review and
construction and shall accurately reflect the results of the engineering
investigation and design.91.9307.2.  Existing Construction.  The plans shall
show the existing diaphragm and shear wall sheathing and framing materials,
fastener type and spacing, diaphragm and shear wall connections, continuity
ties, and collector elements. The plans shall also show the portion of the
existing materials that needs verification during construction.91.9307.3.  New
Construction.91.9307.3.1.  Foundation Plan Elements.  The foundation plan
shall include the size, type, location and spacing of all anchor bolts with the
required depth of embedment, edge and end distance; the location and size of all
columns for braced or moment frames; referenced details for the connection of
braced or moment frames to their footing and referenced sections for any grade
beams and footings.91.9307.3.2.  Framing Plan Elements.  The framing plan
shall include the width, location and material of shear walls; the width,
location and material of frames; references on details for the column to beam
connectors, beam to wall connections, and shear transfers at floor and roof
diaphragms; and the required nailing and length for wall top plate
splices.91.9307.3.3.  Shear Wall Schedule, Notes and Details.  Shear walls
shall have a referenced schedule on the plans that includes the correct shear
wall capacity in pounds per foot; the required fastener type, length, gauge and
head size; and a complete specification for the sheathing material and its
thickness.  The schedule shall also show the required location of 3 inch
nominal or two 2 inch nominal edge members; the spacing of shear transfer
elements such as framing anchors or added sill plate nails; the required
hold-down with its bolt, screw or nail sizes; and the dimensions, lumber grade
and species of the attached framing member.	Notes shall show required edge
distance for fasteners on structural wood panels and framing members; required
flush nailing at the plywood surface; limits of mechanical penetrations; and the
sill plate material assumed in the design.  The limits of mechanical
penetrations shall also be detailed showing the maximum notching and drilled
hole sizes.91.9307.3.4 General Notes.  General notes shall show the
requirements for material testing, special inspection, structural observation
and the proper installation of newly added materials.91.9307.3.5.  Engineer’s
or Architect’s Statement.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper.
1/1/08.)  The responsible engineer or architect shall provide the following
statements on the approved plans:	1.	“I am responsible for designing this
building’s seismic strengthening in compliance with the minimum regulations of
Division 93 of the Los Angeles Building Code.”	and when applicable:	2.	“The
Registered Deputy Inspector, required as a condition of the use of structural
design stresses requiring continuous inspection, will be responsible to me as
required by Section 91.1704 of the Los Angeles Building Code.”
