                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

GENERAL. (§ 91.9201)

  GENERAL.
	(Added by Ord. No. 171,259, Eff. 8/30/96.)91.9201.1.  Purpose. The provisions
of this division are intended to promote public safety and welfare by reducing
the risk of earthquake-induced damage to existing wood-framed residential
buildings.  The voluntary minimum standards contained in this division shall
substantially improve the seismic performance of these residential buildings but
will not necessarily prevent all earthquake damage. When fully followed, these
standards will strengthen the portion of the structure that is most vulnerable
to earthquake damage.	Prior to 1960, most wood frame residential buildings were
built with raised wood floors supported by short wood stud walls known as
cripple walls.  These cripple walls are typically braced with weak seismic
materials such as portland cement plaster or horizontal wood siding.  In
addition, wood frame buildings built under building codes in effect prior to 
July 1938 were not required to be bolted to their foundations. Recent
earthquakes have shown that if a building has weak cripple walls or is unbolted,
it may fall off its foundation even in moderate earthquakes.  Fallen buildings
have collapsed, caught fire or needed extensive repairs to restore their
occupancy.	This division sets prescriptive standards for strengthening of
underfloor enclosures that shall be permitted by the Superintendent of Building
without requiring plans or calculations prepared by an architect or an
engineer.  This division also provides a design standard for the use of
alternate materials or an alternate method of construction in lieu of the
prescriptive standards.  Construction documents for strengthening using
alternate materials or methods shall be prepared by an architect or
engineer.91.9201.2.  Scope.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07,
Oper. 1/1/08.)  The provisions of this division may be applied to light wood
frame Group R Occupancies with no more than four dwelling units when they
contain one or more of the structural weaknesses specified in Section
91.9203.1.	The provisions of this division do not apply to the buildings or
elements of the buildings, listed below.  These buildings or elements require
analysis by an engineer or architect in accordance with Division 16 or other
approved standards to determine appropriate strengthening.	1.	Buildings with a
lateral force resisting system using poles or columns embedded in the
ground.	2.	Cripple walls that exceed four feet (1234 mm) in height.	3.	Buildings
exceeding three stories in height and any three-story building with cripple wall
studs exceeding 14 inches (360 mm) in height.	4.	Buildings, or portions of
buildings, constructed on a concrete slab on grade or constructed on or into a
slope steeper than three horizontal to one vertical.	5.	Buildings where the
Superintendent of Building determines that conditions exist that are beyond the
scope of the requirements of this division.	The standard details approved by the
Superintendent of Building and these prescriptive provisions are not intended to
be the only acceptable strengthening methods permitted.  Alternate details and
methods shall be permitted when approved by the Superintendent of Building. 
Qualified Historical Buildings shall be permitted to use alternate building
regulations of Section 91.8119 of this Code in order to preserve their original
or restored architectural elements and features.91.9201.3.  Alternative Design
Procedures.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)  When
analysis by an engineer or architect is required or provided for a building
within the scope of this division, that analysis shall be in accordance with all
requirements of this Code except as provided in this division.  The design
shall provide strengthening for any structural weakness listed in LAMC Section
91.9203 that is at least equivalent to that provided by the prescriptive
requirements of this division with respect to strength, deflection, and
capacity.  The Superintendent of Building may require that sufficient evidence
be submitted to substantiate that equivalence.  The base shear may be
determined in accordance with the following:	V = 0.1375 W	(92-1)	Where:		V	=	The
total design lateral force or shear at the base.		W	=	The total seismic dead
load defined in Section 12.7.2 of ASCE 7.
