                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SMOKE CONTROL SYSTEMS. (§ 91.909)

  SMOKE CONTROL SYSTEMS.	Section 909 of the CBC is adopted by reference, except
Section 909.3 of the CBC is not adopted and in lieu, Section 91.909.3 is
added.91.909.3.  Special Inspection and Test Requirements.  In addition to the
ordinary inspection and test requirements, which buildings, structures and parts
of buildings and structures are required to undergo, smoke control systems
subject to the provisions of Section 91.909 shall undergo special inspections
and tests sufficient to verify the proper commissioning of the smoke control
design in its final installed condition.  The design submission accompanying
the construction documents shall clearly detail procedures and methods to be
used and the items subject to the inspections and tests.  The commissioning
shall be in accordance with generally accepted engineering practice and, where
possible, based on published standards for the particular testing involved. 
The special inspections and tests required by this section shall be in
compliance with Section 91.1704 of this Code.	A copy of the final report of the
results of the special inspections and tests shall be filed with the
Superintendent of Building and the Fire Department and an identical copy shall
be maintained in an approved location at the building.91.909.3.1. System
Testing.  Prior to the issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy, all of the
smoke-control systems shall be tested as required by the Department of Building
and Safety and the Fire Department and shall show compliance with the minimum
standards of both Departments.  The tests shall be conducted in the presence of
an authorized representative from both Departments.  A report of the results
shall be submitted to both Departments.91.909.3.2. Periodic Retesting.  After
occupancy of the building, all operating parts of the smoke-control systems
shall be retested every six months in accordance with the retest requirements
established by the Department of Building and Safety and the Fire Department. 
The retest shall be conducted by an approved inspection agency or by the owner
or the owner’s representative when so approved by both Departments.  Also, a
report of the test results shall be submitted to both Departments.
