                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEFINITIONS. (§ 91.9303)

  DEFINITIONS.
	(Added by Ord. No. 172,018, Eff. 5/21/98.)	Notwithstanding the applicable
definitions, symbols and notations in the Building Code, the following
definitions shall apply for the purposes of this division:	APARTMENT HOUSE is
any building or portion thereof which contains three or more dwelling units, and
for the purposes of this division, includes residential condominiums.	ASPECT
RATIO is the ratio of the height of a wall section to its width.	CONGREGATE
RESIDENCE is any building or portion thereof which contains facilities for
living, sleeping and sanitation, as required by this code, and may include
facilities for eating and cooking, for occupancy by other than a family. A
congregate residence may be a shelter, convent, monastery, dormitory, fraternity
or sorority house but does not include jails, hospitals, nursing homes, hotels
or lodging houses.	CRIPPLE WALL is a wood-framed stud wall extending from the
top of  the foundation wall to the underside of the lowest floor
framing.	DWELLING UNIT is any building or portion thereof which contains living
facilities, including provisions for sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation,
as required by this code, for not more than one family, or congregate residence
for 10 or fewer persons.	EXPANSION ANCHOR is an approved mechanical fastener
placed in hardened concrete, designed to expand in a self-drilled or pre-drilled
hole of a specified size and engage the sides of the hole in one or more
locations to develop shear and/or tension resistance to applied loads without
grout, adhesive or drypack.	GROUND FLOOR is any floor within the wood frame
portion of a building whose elevation is immediately accessible from an adjacent
grade by vehicles or pedestrians. The ground floor portion of the structure does
not include any level that is completely below adjacent grades.	GUEST ROOM is
any room or rooms used or intended to be used by a guest for sleeping purposes.
Every 100 square feet (9.3 m2) of superficial floor area in a congregate
residence shall be considered a guest room.	HOTEL is any building containing six
or more guest rooms intended or designed to be used, rented, hired out to be
occupied, or which are occupied for sleeping purposes by guests.	LEVEL is a
story, basement, or underfloor space of a building with cripple walls exceeding
four feet in height.	LODGING HOUSE is any building or portion thereof containing
at least one but not more than five guest rooms where rent is paid in money,
goods, labor or otherwise.	MOTEL shall mean a hotel as defined in this
division.	MULTI-UNIT RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS are hotels, lodging houses,
congregate residences and apartment houses.	NONCONFORMING STRUCTURAL MATERIALS
are wall bracing  materials for seismic loads whose Los Angeles Code allowable
shear value was reduced or whose maximum allowable aspect ratio was decreased
since the original building construction. These methods or materials include,
but are not limited to cement or gypsum plaster, gypsum wallboard, diagonal or
let-in bracing, straight or diagonal wood sheathing, particle board and
structural wood panels.	OPEN FRONT WALL LINE is an exterior wall line without
vertical elements of the lateral force resisting system which requires tributary
seismic forces to be resisted by diaphragm rotation or excessive cantilever
beyond parallel lines of shear walls.  Diaphragms that cantilever more than
twenty-five percent of the distance between lines of lateral force resisting
elements shall be considered excessive. Exterior exit balconies of six feet or
less in width shall not be considered excessive cantilevers.	RETROFIT is an
improvement of the lateral force resisting system by alteration of existing
structural elements or addition of new structural elements.	SOFT WALL LINE is a
wall line whose lateral stiffness is less than required by story drift
limitations or deformation compatibility requirements of this division. In lieu
of analysis, this may be defined as a wall line in a story where the story
stiffness is less than 70 percent of the story above for the direction under
consideration.	STORY STRENGTH is the total strength of all seismic resisting
elements sharing the same story shear in the direction under consideration.	WALL
LINE is any length of a wall along a principal axis of the building used to
provide resistance to lateral loads. Parallel wall lines separated by less than
four feet shall be considered one wall line for the distribution of loads.	WEAK
WALL LINE is a wall line laterally braced with nonconforming structural
materials or a wall line in a story where the story strength is less than 80
percent of the story above in the direction under consideration.
