                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ANALYSIS AND DESIGN. (§ 91.9108)

  ANALYSIS AND DESIGN.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 171,175, Eff. 7/25/96.)	For the purpose of this section,
“anchorage system(s)” shall mean all structural elements, which supports the
wall in the lateral direction, including wall anchorage and continuity tie
(cross-tie) connectors in subdiaphragms and main diaphragms for retrofit and
repairs.91.9108.1.  Wall Panel Anchorage.  Concrete walls shall be anchored to
all floors and roofs which provide lateral support for the wall.  The anchorage
shall provide a positive direct connection between the wall and floor or roof
construction capable of resisting a horizontal force equal to 30 percent of the
tributary wall weight for all buildings, and 45 percent of the tributary wall
weight for essential buildings, or a minimum force of 250 pounds per linear foot
of wall, whichever is greater.  The required anchorage shall be based on the
tributary wall panel assuming simple supports  at floors and roof.	EXCEPTION: 
Alternate design may be approved by the Superintendent when justified by well
established principles of mechanics.91.9108.2.  Special Requirements for Wall
Anchors and Continuity Ties.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,758, Eff. 8/8/11.)  The
steel elements of the wall anchorage systems and continuity ties shall be
designed by the allowable stress design method using a load factor of 1.7.  The
1/3 stress increase permitted by CBC Section 1605.3.1.1 shall not be permitted
for materials using allowable stress design methods.	The strength design
specified in CBC Section 1912, using a load factor of 2.0 in lieu of 1.4 for
earthquake loading, shall be used for design of embedment in concrete.	Wall
anchors shall be provided to resist out-of-plane forces, independent of existing
shear anchors.	EXCEPTION:  Existing cast-in-place shear anchors may be used as
wall anchors if the tie element can be readily attached to the anchors and if
the engineer or architect can establish tension values for the existing anchors
through the use of approved as-built plans or testing, and through analysis
showing that the bolts are capable of resisting the total shear load while being
acted upon by the maximum tension force due to earthquake.  Criteria for
analysis and testing shall be determined by the Superintendent.	Expansion
anchors are not allowed without special approval of the Superintendent. 
Attaching the edge of plywood sheathing to steel ledgers is not considered as
complying with the positive anchoring requirements of the Code; and attaching
the edge of steel decks to steel ledgers is not considered as providing the
positive anchorage of this Code unless testing and/or analysis are performed,
which establish shear values for the attachment perpendicular to the edge of the
deck.91.9108.3.  Development of Anchor Loads into the Diaphragm.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 181,758, Eff. 8/8/11.)  Development of anchor loads into roof and
floor diaphragms shall comply with Section 91.1615.4 and Section 12.11 of ASCE
7.	EXCEPTION:  If continuously tied girders are present, then the maximum
spacing of the continuity ties is the greater of the girder spacing or 24 feet
(7315 mm).	In wood diaphragms, anchorage shall not be accomplished by use of toe
nails or nails subject to withdrawal, nor shall wood ledgers, top plates or
framing be used in cross-grain bending or cross-grain tension.  The continuous
ties required by Section 91.1615.4 and Section 12.11 of ASCE 7 shall be in
addition to the diaphragm sheathing.	Lengths of development of anchor loads in
wood diaphragms shall be based on existing field nailing of the sheathing unless
existing edge nailing is positively identified on the original construction
plans or at the site.	At reentrant corners, continuity collectors may be
required for existing return walls not designed as shear walls, to develop into
the diaphragm a force equal to the lesser of the rocking or shear capacity of
the return wall, or the tributary shear, but not exceeding the capacity of the
diaphragm.  Shear anchors for the return wall shall be commensurate with the
collector force.  If a truss or beam, other than rafters or purlins, is
supported by the return wall or by a column integral with the return wall, an
independent secondary column, is required to support the roof or floor members
whenever rocking or shear capacity of the return wall is governing.	Seismic
deflection shall be determined at the return walls, and fins/canopies at
entrances, to ensure deflection compatibility with the diaphragm, by either
seismically isolating the element or attaching the element and integrating its
load into the diaphragm.91.9108.4.  Anchorage at Pilasters.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 172,592, Eff. 6/28/99, Oper. 7/1/99.)  Anchorage of pilasters shall be
designed for the tributary wall anchoring load per Section 91.9108.1 of this
Code, considering the wall as a two-way slab.  The edge of the two-way slab
shall be considered “fixed” when there is continuity at pilasters, and
considered “pinned” at roof or floor levels.  The pilasters or the walls
immediately adjacent to the pilasters shall be anchored directly to the roof
framing such that the existing vertical anchor bolts at the top of the pilasters
are by-passed without causing tension or shear failure at the top of the
pilasters.	EXCEPTION:  If existing vertical anchor bolts at the top of the
pilasters are used for the anchorage, then additional exterior confinement shall
be provided.	The minimum anchorage at a floor or roof between the pilasters
shall be that specified in Section 91.9108.1 of this Code.91.9108.5. 
Symmetry.  Symmetry of connectors in the anchorage system is required. 
Eccentricity may be allowed when it can be shown that all components of forces
are positively resisted and justified by calculations or tests.91.9108.6. 
Minimum Roof Member Size.  Wood members used to develop anchorage forces to the
diaphragm must be at least 3x for new construction and replacement.  All such
members must be checked for gravity and earthquake as part of the wall anchorage
system.  For existing buildings, the member check shall be without the 1/3
stress increase per Section 91.9108.2.91.9108.7.  Combination of Anchor
Types.  To repair and retrofit existing buildings, a combination of different
anchor types of different behavior or stiffness shall not be permitted.  The
capacity of the new and existing connectors cannot be added.91.9108.8. 
Prohibited Anchors.  Usage of connectors that were bent and/or stretched from
the intended use shall be prohibited.91.9108.9.  Crack and Damage Repairs,
Evaluation of Existing Structural Alterations.  The engineer shall report any
observed structural conditions and structural damage that have imminent life
safety effects on the buildings and recommend repairs.  Evaluations and repairs
shall be reviewed and approved by the Department.  The engineer shall also
evaluate the effects of alterations such as openings cut in existing wall panels
without a permit, that may present immediate life safety hazard and correct when
necessary.91.9108.10.  Miscellaneous.  Existing mezzanines relying on the
tilt-up walls for vertical and/or lateral support shall be anchored to the walls
for the tributary mezzanine load.  Walls depending on the mezzanine for lateral
support shall be anchored per Sections 91.9108.1, 91.9108.2 and
91.9108.3.	EXCEPTION:  Existing mezzanines that have independent lateral and
vertical support need not be anchored to the walls.	Existing interior masonry or
concrete walls not designed as shear walls, that extend to the floor above or to
the roof diaphragm shall also be anchored for out-of-plane forces per Sections
91.9108.1, 91.9108.2 and 91.9108.3 of this Code.  In the in-plane direction,
the walls may be isolated or shall be developed into the diaphragm for a lateral
force equal to the lesser of the rocking or shear capacity of the wall, or the
tributary shear but not exceeding the diaphragm capacity.
