                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DYNAMIC LATERAL ANALYSIS PROCEDURE. (§ 91.9509)

  DYNAMIC LATERAL ANALYSIS PROCEDURE.
	(Added by Ord. No. 171,260, Eff. 8/30/96.)91.9509.1.  General.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 172,592, Eff. 6/28/99, Oper. 7/1/99.)  Structures shall be analyzed
for seismic forces acting concurrently on the orthogonal axes of the
structure.  The effects of the loading on two orthogonal axes shall be combined
by the square root of the sum of the squares (SRSS) methods.91.9509.2.  Ground
Motion.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)  The
seismic ground motion values shall be determined in accordance with ASCE 7 and
may be one of the following:	1.	The elastic design response spectrum shall be
75% of the response spectrum described in Section 11.4.5 of ASCE 7.	2.	A
site-specific response spectrum shall be 75% of the site-specific response
spectrum described in Section 11.4.7 of ASCE 7.91.9509.3.  Mathematical
Model.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)  The
three- dimensional mathematical model of the physical structure shall represent
the spatial distribution of mass and stiffness of the structure to an extent
that is adequate for the calculation of the significant features of its dynamic
response.  All concrete and masonry elements shall be included in the model of
the physical structure.	EXCEPTION:  Concrete or masonry partitions that are
adequately isolated from the concrete frame members and the floor
above.	Cast-in-place reinforced concrete floors with span-to- depth ratios less
than 3:1 may be assumed to be rigid diaphragms.  Other floors, including floors
constructed of precast elements with or without a reinforced concrete topping,
shall be analyzed in conformance with Section 12.3.1.3 of ASCE 7 to determine if
they must be considered as flexible diaphragms.  The effective in-plane
stiffness of the diaphragm, including effects of cracking and discontinuity
between precast elements shall be considered.  Ramps that interconnect floor
levels shall be modeled as having mass appropriately distributed on that
element.  The lateral stiffness of the ramp may be calculated as having
properties based on the uncracked cross section of the slab exclusive of beams
and girders.91.9509.4.  Effective Stiffness.91.9509.4.1.  General.  The
effective stiffness of concrete and masonry elements or systems shall be
calculated as the secant stiffness of the element or system with due
consideration of the effects of tensile cracking and compression strain.  The
secant stiffness shall be taken from the force-displacement relationship of the
element or system.  The secant stiffness shall be measured as the slope from
the origin to the intersection of the force-displacement relationship at the
assumed displacement.  The force-displacement relationship shall be determined
by a nonlinear analysis.  The force-displacement analysis shall include the
calculation of the displacement at which strength degradation
begins.	EXCEPTION:  The initial effective moment of inertia of beams and
columns in shear wall or infilled frame buildings may be estimated using Table
95-D.  The ratio of effective moment of inertia used for the beams and for the
columns shall be verified by Formula (9-1), (9-2) and (9-3).  The estimates
shall be revised if the ratio used exceeds the ratio calculated by more than 20
percent.			(9-1)
	WHERE:			(9-2)	AND:			(9-3)91.9509.4.2.  Infills.  The effective stiffness of
an infill shall be determined from a nonlinear analysis of the infill and the
confining frame.  The effect of the infill on the stiffness of the system shall
be determined by differencing the force-displacement relationship of the
frame-infill system from the frame-only system.91.9509.4.3.  Model of Infill. 
The mathematical model of an infilled frame structure shall include the
stiffness effects of the infill as a pair of diagonals in the bays of the
frame.  The diagonals shall be considered as having concrete properties and
only axial loads.  Their lines of action shall intersect the beam-column
joints.  The secant stiffness of the force-displacement relationship,
calculated as prescribed in Section 91.9509.4.2, shall be used to determine the
effective area of the diagonals.  The effective stiffness of the frame shall be
determined as specified in Section 91.9509.4.1.  Other procedures that provide
the same effective stiffness for the combination of infill and frame may be used
when approved by the Superintendent of Building.91.9509.4.4.  Effective
Stiffness of Elements and Systems.  The effective stiffnesses shall be
determined by an iterative method.  The mathematical model using assumed
effective stiffnesses shall be used to calculate dynamic displacements.  The
effective stiffness of all concrete and masonry elements shall be modified to
represent the secant stiffness obtained from the nonlinear force-displacement
analysis of the element or system at the calculated displacement.  A
re-analysis of the mathematical model shall be made using the adjusted effective
stiffness of existing and supplemental elements and systems until closure of the
iterative process is obtained.  A difference of 10 percent from the effective
stiffness used and that recalculated may be assumed to be closure of the
iterative process.91.9509.5.  Description of Analysis Procedures.91.9509.5.1. 
Response Spectrum Analysis.  Response spectrum analysis is an elastic dynamic
analysis of a structure utilizing the peak dynamic response of all modes having
a significant contribution to total structural response.  Peak modal responses
are calculated using the ordinates of the appropriate response spectrum curve
which correspond to the modal periods.  Maximum modal contributions are
combined in a statistical manner to obtain an approximate total structural
response.91.9509.5.2.  Number of Modes.  The requirement of Section
91.9509.5.1 may be satisfied by demonstrating that for the modes considered, at
least 90 percent of the participating mass of the structure is included in the
calculation of response for each principal horizontal direction.91.9509.5.3. 
Combining Modes.  The peak displacements for each mode shall be combined by
recognized methods.  Modal interaction effects of three-dimensional models
shall be considered when combining modal maxima.91.9509.5.4.  Torsion.  The
three-dimensional analysis shall be considered as including all torsional
effects including accidental torsional effects.91.9509.6.  Material
Characteristics.  The stress-strain relationship of concrete, masonry and
reinforcement shall be determined by testing or from published data.  The
procedure for testing and determination of stress-strain values shall be as
prescribed in one of the following:	A.	Concrete.  The compressive strength of
existing concrete shall be determined by tests on cores sampled from the
structure or may be taken from information given on the construction documents
and confirmed by limited testing.  A default value of horizontal shear stress
may be used in Section 91.9511.5.1 without testing of the compressive strength
of the existing concrete.	1.	The cutting of cores shall not significantly reduce
the strength of the existing structure.  Cores shall not be taken in columns. 
Existing reinforcement shall not be cut.	2.	If the construction documents do not
specify a minimum compressive strength of the classes of concrete, five cores
per story, with a minimum of ten cores, shall be obtained for
testing.	EXCEPTION:  If the coefficient of variation of the compressive
strength does not exceed 15 percent, the number of cores per story may be
reduced to two and the minimum number of tests reduced to five.	3.	When the
construction documents specify a minimum compressive strength, two cores per
story, per class of concrete, shall be taken in the areas where that concrete
was to be placed.  A minimum of five cores shall be obtained for testing.  If
a higher strength of concrete was specified for columns than the remainder of
the concrete, cores taken in the beams for verification of the specified
strength of the beams, shall be substituted for tests in the columns.  The
strength specified for columns may be used in the analyses if the specified
compressive strength in the beams is verified.	4.	The sampling for the concrete
strength tests shall be distributed uniformly in each story.  If the building
has shear walls, a minimum of 50 percent of the cores shall be taken from the
shear walls.  Not more than 25 percent of the required cores shall be taken in
floor and roof slabs.  The remainder of cores may be taken from the center of
beams at mid-span.  In concrete frame buildings, 75 percent of the cores shall
be taken from the beams.	5.	The mean value of the compressive stresses obtained
from the core testing for each class of concrete shall be used in the
analyses.  Values of peak strain that is associated with peak compressive
stress may be taken from published data for the nonlinear analyses of reinforced
concrete elements.	B.	Solid Grouted Reinforced Masonry.  The compressive
strength of solid grouted concrete block or brick masonry may be taken as 2000
psi (13.8 MPa).  The strain associated with peak stress may be taken as
0.0025.	C.	Partially Grouted Masonry.  A minimum of five units shall be removed
from the walls and tested in conformance with ASTM C 140.  Compressive strength
of the masonry may be determined in accordance with CBC Section 2105.2.2,
assuming Type S mortar.  The strain associated with peak stress may be taken as
0.0025.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper.
1/1/08.)	D.	Unreinforced Masonry.	1.	The stress-strain relationship of existing
unreinforced masonry shall be determined by in-place cyclic testing.  The test
procedure shall conform to Section 91.9513.	2.	One stress-strain test per story
and a minimum of five tests shall be made in the unreinforced masonry infills. 
The location of the tests shall be uniformly distributed throughout the
building.	3.	The average values of the stress-strain values obtained from
testing shall be used in the nonlinear analyses of frame-infill assemblies or in
the calculation of the effective diagonal brace that is used in the simplified
analysis procedure of Section 91.9511.	E.	Reinforcement.  The yield stress of
each type of new or existing reinforcement shall be taken from Table 95-E unless
the reinforcement is sampled and tested for yield stress.  The axial
reinforcement in columns of post-1933 buildings shall be assumed to be hard
grade unless noted otherwise on the construction documents.	F.	Combination of
Concrete and Masonry Materials.  Combinations of masonry and concrete infills
shall be assumed to have equal strain.  The secant moduli at peak stress of the
masonry and concrete shall be used to determine the effective transformed area
of the composite material.91.9509.7.  Story Drift Limitation.91.9509.7.1. 
Definition.  Story drift is the displacement of one level relative to the level
above or below calculated by the response spectrum analysis using the
appropriate effective stiffness.91.9509.7.2.  Limitation.  The story drift is
limited to that displacement that causes any of the following
effects:	1.	Compressive strain of 0.003 in the frame confining infill or in a
shear wall.	2.	Compressive strain of 0.004 in a reinforced concrete column
unless the engineer can show by published experimental research that the
existing confinement reinforcement justifies higher values of strain.	3.	Peak
strain in masonry infills as determined by experimental data or by physical
testing as prescribed in Section 91.9513.	4.	Displacement that was calculated by
the nonlinear analysis as when strength degradation of any element
began.	EXCEPTION:  Item 4 may be taken as the displacement that causes a
strength degradation in that line of resistance equal to 10 percent of the sum
of the strength of the elements in that line of resistance.	5.	A story drift of
0.015 using the dynamic analysis procedure or the forces specified in Section
91.9510.  This limitation shall not supersede the limitations of Items
1-4.91.9509.8.  Compressive Strain Determination.91.9509.8.1.  General.  The
compressive strain in columns, shear walls and infills may be determined by the
nonlinear analysis or a procedure that assumes plane sections remain
plane.91.9509.8.2.  Axial and Flexural Loading.  The compressive strain shall
be determined for combined flexure and axial loading.  The flexural moments
shall be taken from the response spectrum model for frame or shear wall
buildings, and from the substructure model for infill frames.  The axial loads
shall have the following combination of effects, where L is unreduced live
load:U = 1.0 D + 0.3 L = 1.0 E	(9-4)U = 0.9 D  -  1.0  E	(9-5)91.9509.9. 
Shear Strength Limitation.  The required in-plane shear strength of all
columns, piers and shear walls shall be the shear associated with the moments
induced at the ends of columns or piers and at the base of shear walls by the
story displacements.  No strength reduction factors shall be used in the
determination of strength.
