                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

INFORMATION REQUIRED ON PLANS. (§ 91.9110)

  INFORMATION REQUIRED ON PLANS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 171,175, Eff. 7/25/96.)91.9110.1.  General.  In addition
to the seismic analysis required elsewhere in this division, the licensed
engineer or architect responsible for the seismic analysis of the building shall
record the information required by this section on the approved
plans.91.9110.2.  Information Required.  The plans shall accurately reflect
the results of the engineering investigation and design and show all pertinent
dimensions and sizes for plan review and construction.  The following shall be
provided:	1.	Floor plans and roof plans shall show existing framing
construction, diaphragm construction, proposed wall anchors, cross-ties and
collectors.  Existing nailing, anchors, ties and collectors shall also be shown
on the plans if these are part of the design, and these structural elements need
to be verified in the field.	2.	At elevations where there are alterations or
damage, details shall show roof and floor heights, dimensions of openings,
location and extent of existing damage, and proposed repair.	3.	Typical wall
panel sections with panel thickness, height, location of anchors shall be
provided.	4.	Details shall include existing and new anchors and the method of
development of anchor forces into the diaphragm framing; existing and/or new
cross-ties; existing and/or new or improved support of roof and floor girders at
pilasters or walls.91.9110.3.  Engineer’s or Architect’s Statement.
(Amended by Ord. No. 179,324, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)  The responsible
engineer or architect shall state on the approved plans, the following:	1.	I am
responsible for this building’s seismic strengthening design in compliance
with the minimum seismic resistance standards of Division 91 of the Los Angeles
Building Code.and when applicable:	2.	The Registered Deputy Inspector, required
as a condition of the use of structural design stresses requiring continuous
inspection, will be responsible to me as required by Section 91.1704 of the Los
Angeles Building Code.
