                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

JOURNEY-LEVEL ELEVATOR MECHANIC – CERTIFICATE REQUIRED. (§ 92.0119)

  JOURNEY-LEVEL ELEVATOR MECHANIC – CERTIFICATE REQUIRED.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 174,861, Eff. 11/14/02, Oper. 11/1/02.)	(a)	No person
shall, without a Certificate of Registration from the Board of Examiners as a
Journey-Level Elevator Mechanic, install, construct, repair, maintain, or
reconstruct any elevator, wheelchair and inclined stairway chairlift, vertical
reciprocating conveyor or related device regulated by this Code, or its parts,
for which a permit is specifically required in Sections 92.0126 and
92.0129.	EXCEPTIONS:	1.	A person who holds a Certificate of Registration from
the Board of Examiners as a Wheelchair Lift Mechanic may install, construct,
repair, maintain, or reconstruct any wheelchair and inclined stairway chairlift
for which a permit is specifically required in Sections 92.0126 and
92.0129.	2.	A person who holds a Certificate of Registration from the Board of
Examiners as a Vertical Reciprocating Conveyors Mechanic may install, construct,
repair, maintain, or reconstruct any vertical reciprocating conveyor for which a
permit is specifically required in Sections 92.0126 and 92.0129.	(b)	The
Certificate of Registration shall be required whether the Journey-Level Elevator
Mechanic, Wheelchair Lift Mechanic or Vertical Reciprocating Mechanic is
employed by an Elevator, Chairlift or Vertical Reciprocating Conveyor Contractor
or by an owner of a building or the owner’s agent.	(c)	The term
“Journey-Level Elevator Mechanic” or “Elevator Mechanic” for the purpose
of this Code shall mean a person who is qualified and registered by the City of
Los Angeles to perform or supervise performance of work installing, altering,
repairing, servicing, adjusting, maintaining or inspecting all equipment within
the scope of this Code.	(d)	The term “Wheelchair Lift Mechanic” for the
purpose of this Code shall mean a person who is qualified and registered by the
City of Los Angeles to perform or supervise performance of work installing,
altering, repairing, servicing, adjusting, maintaining or inspecting limited to
wheelchair lifts and inclined stairway chairlifts within the scope of this
Code.	(e)  The term “Vertical Reciprocating Conveyor Mechanic” for the
purpose of this Code shall mean a person who is qualified and registered by the
City of Los Angeles to perform or supervise performance of work installing,
altering, repairing, servicing, adjusting, maintaining or inspecting limited to
vertical reciprocating conveyors within the scope of this Code.
