                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNERS, LESSEES, MANAGERS, ETC. (§ 92.0134)

  RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNERS, LESSEES, MANAGERS, ETC.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 171,668, Eff. 8/28/97.)	(a)	It shall be unlawful for any
person having possession or custody of or authority or control over any premises
whereon any equipment or device mentioned in this code is installed, whether as
owner, lessee, licensee, trustee, mortgagee, management company, or
representative, officer, employer or agent thereof, or as building manager or
custodian, or in any capacity whatsoever:	1.	To permit on such premises the
installation of any elevator or other equipment or device for which a permit is
required by this division unless such permit shall first have been obtained from
the Department.	2.	To permit on such premises the doing of any work for which a
Certificate of Registration is required by this division except by a person
holding such Certificate.	3.	To use or permit the use of any elevator or other
equipment or device required by this division to be inspected and approved by
the Department unless such equipment shall first have been inspected and
approved and all fees paid.	4.	To use or permit the use of any elevator,
equipment or device the use or operation of which has been prohibited by the
Department.	5.	To obstruct or interfere with the Department or any Safety
Engineer thereof in making any inspection required by law or ordered by the
Superintendent of Building.	(b)	Any person having possession or custody of or
authority or control over any premises whereon any equipment or device mentioned
in this code is installed, whether as owner, lessee, licensee, trustee,
mortgagee, management company, or representative, officer, employer or agent
thereof, or as building manager or custodian, or in any capacity whatsoever
shall be responsible to install and maintain the following
signs:	1.	Elevators	A.	A sign of durable material with letters of not less than
1/8-inch in height shall be posted in each elevator machine room displaying the
telephone number or numbers to call for emergency service.  The number or
numbers shall be for an individual possessing a current Journeyman Elevator
Mechanic Certificate issued by the City or elevator service company employing an
individual so certified.  The person or company must be able to provide service
at the hours the elevators are expected to be operating.  A similar sign shall
be posted in the building manager’s premises or other appropriate
location.	B.	A sign shall be posted in each elevator car in letters of not less
than 1/8-inch in height instructing passengers on the procedure for seeking
assistance should the elevator become inoperative and instructing them to remain
in the car until assistance arrives and not to attempt to force the doors or
hatch open.	2.	Escalators.  All escalators shall have conspicuously displayed
at each entrance a sign of durable material in accordance with ASME 17.1-1996,
Rule 805.9.  (Amended by Ord. No. 174,861, Eff. 11/14/02, Oper.
11/1/02.) 	3.	Landings.  An approved pictorial sign of a standardized design
shall be posted adjacent to each elevator corridor call station to indicate
that, in case of fire, the elevator will not operate and the exit stairways
should be used.  The pictograph shall be at least five inches (127 mm) wide and
eight inches (230 mm) high.  (See ASME A-17.1-96, Appendix H).  (Amended by
Ord. No. 174,861, Eff. 11/14/02, Oper. 11/1/02.)PART 3
ENFORCEMENT
