                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS. (§ 92.0207)

  ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 174,861, Eff. 11/14/02, Oper. 11/1/02.)	(a)	Access to
Pits.	(1)	Access to pits extending two feet or more below the sill of the pit
access door shall be by means of a permanent ladder or stairway of incombustible
material.  The ladder or stairway shall be adequately guarded to prevent
contact between a person on the ladder or stairway and any moving part of any
adjacent elevator machinery.  The ladder shall extend at least 36 inches above
the sill or the access door unless handgrips are provided to the same height. 
The ladder shall be located adjacent to the strike jamb of and accessible from
the access door to the pit.  The distance from the ladder rung to the wall
shall be at least four inches.  Access to pits of elevators in multiple
hoistways may be by means of a single hoistway door and ladder.	(2)	Vertical
ladders shall not be permitted in pits having a depth of more than 12 feet below
the lowest hoistway door sill.  A separate access door shall be provided for
pit access.	(3)	When the means of determining the oil level of the car or
counterweight buffers is located more than seven feet above the pit floor, a
permanent steel platform and ladder shall be provided for inspection and
maintenance of the buffer.	(4)	If the pit access door is contacted, a sign shall
be posted reading, “DOOR CONTACTED” or equivalent.	EXCEPTION:  The elevator
pit access door has a vision panel of at least six inches by eight
inches.	(b)	An adequate means of supporting the elevator car shall be provided
prior to landing the elevator car or repacking the hydraulic elevator plungers
or performing other elevator equipment maintenance that requires the elevator
car to be in a static position.	(c)	Guiding Members.  (This requirement is in
lieu of Rule 203.2 of ASME A17.1).  The car top roller guides shall be shielded
by roller guards.	(d)	Materials For Enclosures and Enclosure Linings.  (These
requirements are in addition to California Code of Regulations, Title 8, Section
3121.4).	Materials for car enclosure framing and car enclosure linings shall
conform to the following:	1.	Material for Car Enclosures Framing:  Metal,
approved incombustible materials, or fire retardant treated wood, defined as any
lumber or plywood impregnated with chemicals that when tested in accordance with
ASTM E84, UL 723 or NFPA 255 for a period of 30 minutes shall have a flame
spread rating of 25 or less and a smoke contribution of 25 or less.  The fire
retardant wood shall have visible identification mounted on the crosshead,
showing the fire performance, and issued by an approved testing agency having a
reexamination service.	2.	Materials for Enclosure Wall and Ceiling Lining: 
Materials used to furnish the inside surfaces of the enclosure shall be
incombustible or shall be bonded flat to the enclosure and have a flame spread
rating of 50 or less and a smoke density of 300 or less when tested in
accordance with ASTM E84, UL 723 or NFPA 255.	3.	Plastic Luminous Ceilings in
Elevator Enclosures:	(a)	Flame spread shall not exceed 50 and smoke density
shall not exceed 300 when tested according to ASTM E84, UL 723 or NFPA
255.	(b)	The self-ignition temperature shall be 650 or greater when tested
according to ASTM D 1929-68. 	4.	Combustible materials used in the enclosure
wall and ceiling shall be specifically approved by the Department. 	(e)	Speed
Governor Marking Plate. The manufacturer’s type designation shall be added to
the data shown on the Speed-Governor marking plate required by Rule 206. 9 of
ASME A17.1-1996.	(f)	Clearance Between Balustrade and Steps.  (This requirement
is in lieu of Rule 802.3(e) of ASME A17.1-1996).  The clearance on either side
of the steps between the steps and the adjacent skirt guard shall be not more
than 3/16-inch, and the sum of the clearance on both sides shall be not more
than 1/4-inch. 	(g)	Reinspection Periods.  (This requirement is in lieu of
California Code of Regulations, Title 8, Section 3001(b)(4)).  Periodic
reinspections shall be made at intervals not longer than twelve months for all
elevator equipment or related devices regulated by this Code.	(h)	Electrical
Code.  Electrical equipment, devices and wiring shall conform to the Electrical
Code.	(i)	Hoistway Door Vision Panels.  (This requirement is in addition to the
requirements of Rule 110.7(a) through (g) ASME A17.1).	All passenger elevator
hoistway doors containing glass (including vision panels) are required to be
covered within 60 days after notification by the Department. 	The elevator
hoistway door glass panels shall be covered as follows: 	1.	The covering shall
be a minimum of 1/8-inch thick steel plate or expanded steel sheet metal having
sufficient holes or perforations to determine the location of the elevator
car; 	2.	The holes or perforations shall not exceed one inch
across; 	3.	Installations of the steel plates or sheet metal coverings shall be
made with welds or bolts (carriage type) installed with the nuts on the hoistway
side to discourage the unauthorized dismantling of the installation;	4.	The
installation shall not have protruding parts nor shall any of the parts have
sharp edges.		EXCEPTIONS:	1.	Plates of special design, such as those that swing
out or provide quick removal for cleaning the glass, may be approved after
details of the proposed installation are submitted to the Department for
consideration.	2.	Plates designed with a multitude of holes or perforations, not
larger than 1/8-inch each, may be used in lieu of the glass in vision
panels.	3.	Glass hoistway doors meeting the requirements of ASME A17.1-1996,
Rule 110.7b. 	(j)	Vision Panels.  (This requirement is in addition to the
requirements of Rule 204.2(e) Subsections 1 through 4 of ASME A17.1).  All
passenger elevator car doors containing glass vision panels are required to be
covered in the manner prescribed in Section 92.0207(i) for hoistway door vision
panels.	EXCEPTION:  Glass car doors meeting the requirements of ASME
A17.1-1996, Rule 204.5i(2).
	(k)	Elevator Controls/Machinery Spaces.  Required workspace clearance for
elevator control and/or machinery spaces shall be located entirely within the
interior of the building.  (Added by Ord. No. 179,328, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper.
1/1/08.)
	(l)	Elevator Earthquake Operation.  An elevator, which has been shut down by
the activation of a seismic device, shall not return to normal operation until
an inspection of the hoistway and related equipment has been made and deemed
safe and code compliant by a Certified Journey-Level Elevator Mechanic.  The
owner of the building shall keep a record of the inspection and approval by the
Certified Journey-Level Elevator Mechanic to allow the reactivation of the
elevator.  (Added by Ord. No. 179,328, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)
