                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

INFORMATION REQUIRED ON PLANS OR SPECIFICATIONS. (§ 93.0207)

  INFORMATION REQUIRED ON PLANS OR SPECIFICATIONS.	The following information is
required to be shown on plans, specifications and diagrams submitted for review
by the Department:  (Amended by Ord. No. 176,775, Eff. 8/1/05, Oper.
8/1/05.)	(a)	A complete plan showing the layout of the proposed electric systems
for each floor or area, including dimensions of all working spaces, a full scope
of the project and a legend of all symbols used.  (Amended by Ord. No. 172,593,
Eff. 6/28/99, Oper. 7/1/99.)	(b)	The type, location and capacity of all service
equipment.	(c)	The size and the length of all service raceways to the manhole,
vault or pole of the serving agency or to the service head.	(d)	The size of all
raceways and the length of all feeder raceways.	(e)	The dimensions of all pull
or junction boxes larger than four inches trade size.	(f)	The number, size, and
type of all conductors to be installed in wiring enclosures.	(g)	The location of
every proposed outlet and switch in all parts of the building or structure
including all fixed showcases, wall cases, and similar wiring.	(h)	The wattage
or ampere ratings of each outlet for noninductive loads and the volt-ampere
rating of each unit or transformer for electric discharge lighting.	(i)	The
location, voltage, and H.P. rating of every motor and the K.W. rating of every
generator. The type and code letter of every A.C. motor shall be given unless
otherwise satisfactory to the Department.	(j)	The location and K.V.A., or
equivalent rating of each transformer, capacitor, ballast, converter, frequency
changer, and similar equipment and the location and ampere or wattage rating of
other appliances of the noninductive type.	(k)	Details of panelboard,
switchboard, and distribution centers, showing type and arrangement of switches,
overcurrent devices, and general control equipment.	(l)	Panelboard and
switchboard schedules showing wattage and amperage, the number of active branch
circuits to be installed, and the number of spare branch circuits for future
use. This shall include identifying the circuits to which the outlets are
connected.	(m)	The existing load, as calculated in accordance with Articles 210
and 220 of the C.E.C. or by other methods satisfactory to the Department, shall
be indicated for existing installations having alterations or additions made to
them.  (Amended by Ord. No. 172,593, Eff. 6/28/99, Oper. 7/1/99.)	(n)	Other
additional information as the Department may consider necessary for proper
enforcement of this Code.	(o)	On all occupancies indicating location, rating and
method being served for all new and existing power distribution equipment. 
(Added by Ord. No. 172,593, Eff. 6/28/99, Oper. 7/1/99.)	(p)	Any or all
engineering calculations as applicable for the installation.  (Added by Ord.
No. 176,775, Eff. 8/1/05, Oper. 8/1/05.)	(q)	Interconnected wiring between all
devices in each branch circuit from any panelboard or switch-board to the last
device or load.  (Added by Ord. No. 176,775, Eff. 8/1/05, Oper. 8/1/05.)
