                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

FEES FOR PLAN CHECKING. (§ 93.0233)

  FEES FOR PLAN CHECKING.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 180,868, Eff. 10/22/09.)	(a)	Before formally accepting a
set of plans and specifications for checking, the Department shall collect a
plan check fee.	(b)	The plan check fee shall be 80 percent of the fees specified
in Sections 93.0214 through 93.0233 of this Code for each of the items shown on
the plans, with a minimum fee of $90.00.	(c)	A fee of $13.00 per thousand square
feet, or major fraction thereof, of the floor, illuminated building façade, and
display surface areas which is required to comply with the rules and regulations
adopted by the California Energy Commission shall be charged for plan checking
for conformity to such rules and regulations.  The minimum fee shall not be
less than $69.00.  The fee required here shall be in addition to those fees
required by Subsection (b), above.  This fee shall not be subject to the
percentage set forth in Subsection (b), above.	(d)	A complete schedule of the
fees due shall be included with each set of plans submitted to the
Department.	(e)	The plan check fees required by the provisions of this section
are in addition to the permit fees required elsewhere in this Code.  The total
plan check fees shall be paid regardless of whether or not the plans are
approved or the proposed wiring as indicated on the plans is abandoned.  The
plans shall not be approved until the total plan check fees are
paid.	(f)	Electrical installations for which plan checking fees are not
specified in the fee schedules or when a plan received more than three sets of
corrections shall be checked and a fee shall be paid as specified in Section
98.0415(e) of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.	(g)	In addition to the fees
charged under Subsection (a) of Section 93.0217 and Subsection (b) of Section
93.0233, when replacing, installing or relocating each fire warning system,
communication, control or signal system equipment, or portion thereof, the
Department may collect a plan check fee as specified in LAMC Section
98.0415(e).	(h)	Off-hour Plan Check.  Upon request by an applicant and accepted
by the Department, an off-hour plan check fee per Section 98.0422 of the Los
Angeles Municipal Code may be collected.
