                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

FEES FOR ADDITIONAL INSPECTIONS. (§ 93.0229)

  FEES FOR ADDITIONAL INSPECTIONS.	(a)	Each permit shall be entitled to four
inspection trips when the job is of a type requiring an inspection before
covering or concealing the work. On jobs which may be completely inspected on
one inspection trip, two inspection trips will be allowed.	EXCEPTION:  The
number of inspection trips will not be limited on progress jobs; provided,
however, that only one inspection will be permitted for checking a correction.
For the purpose of this section, progress jobs are those where circumstances
beyond the control of the qualified installer make it impossible for the
electrical work to be completed at any specific time.	(b)	If more inspection
trips than are specified in Subsection (a) of this section are required due to
fault or error on the part of the qualified installer or his employees, an
additional fee as specified in Section 98.0412(b) shall be paid for each such
additional inspection trip.  (Amended by Ord. No. 166,584, Eff.
1/23/91.)	(c)	Corrections shall be completed within 30 days of the date of
issuance of a written notice to the qualified installer by the Department.
Installations on which a written notice has been issued shall be rechecked by
the Department after 30 days have elapsed from the date of issuance of the
notice.	(d)	The Department may recheck installations upon which violations
continue to exist at intervals of 30 days or more until either the violations
are eliminated or a total of three rechecks are made. The fees specified in
Subsection (b) of this section shall apply for each recheck inspection.	(e)	The
fees charged under this section are in addition to any other fees shown in this
division and the payment of the fees required by this section shall not exempt
any person from compliance with other provisions of this Code, nor from any
penalty prescribed by law.	(f)	Whenever special enforcement procedures are
required to obtain compliance with properly executed Department notices or
orders, a fee, as specified in Section 98.0407 of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code, shall be assessed in addition to the added trip fee specified in
Subsection (b) of this section. (Amended by Ord. No. 147,537, Eff. 9/15/75.)
