                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

INSPECTION OF ELECTRICAL WIRING AND EQUIPMENT INSTALLATION. (§ 93.0306)

  INSPECTION OF ELECTRICAL WIRING AND EQUIPMENT INSTALLATION.	(a)	No person
shall conceal, close or cover, or cause or permit to be concealed, enclosed or
covered, any portion of any electrical wiring or equipment in any manner which
will interfere with or prevent the inspection and approval thereof.	(b)	Each
obstruction which makes impracticable the making of a complete and thorough
inspection of electrical wiring shall be removed upon notice (either verbal or
in writing) to do so, and shall be kept removed until the electrical wiring has
been inspected and approved by the Department.	(c)	Before final inspection of
any electric wiring, all plaster, concrete or other foreign material shall be
thoroughly removed from every box and wiring enclosure, and not less than six
inches of jointless conductor shall extend out of each lighting outlet box for
future connection thereto.	(d)	In any case where one or more taped joints made
without splicing devices are found not soldered at the time of inspection, the
inspector may require every joint for such electric wiring to be left untaped
until the inspection and approval thereof.	(e)	(Amended by Ord. No. 172,593,
Eff. 6/28/99, Oper. 7/1/99.)  In any case where a splicing device is found not
in conformity with all the requirements of Subsection (b) of Section 110-14 of
the C.E.C., the inspector may require that all covers, tape or other separate
sheaths be removed from every splicing device in the installation and all the
splices be pulled out of all boxes or other enclosures, and be left exposed for
inspection.  A ladder or other acceptable means shall be provided by the
qualified installer to enable the inspector to make a thorough inspection of all
the splices that are out of reach of the ground or floor.	(f)	Where there is
reasonable evidence that conductors are damaged or do not comply with the
requirements of this Code, the inspector may require them to be removed from
raceways to determine their condition.	(g)	Fixtures, appliances, devices or
equipment shall not be connected to any electrical wiring until the rough
electrical wiring, including conductors, has been inspected and approved, except
as otherwise satisfactory to the Department.	(h)	All wiring shall be free from
grounds, shorts, or other defects before approval thereof.	(i)	Whenever any
electrical wiring or equipment has been inspected and found to comply with the
provisions of this Code, the inspector of the Department shall leave a notice so
stating at the service switch or other suitable place.	(j)	The qualified
installer shall upon request by the inspector, provide ladders or other means
suitable to the inspector, to facilitate inspections of all electric wiring
which is not accessible from the ground or floor.	(k)	The qualified installer
shall arrange for inspection, during the progress of installation of concealed
supports for lighting fixtures and appliances, and for the inspection of
fixtures assembled on the ceiling, and shall provide for all means necessary for
weight tests and other inspections the Department considers
necessary.	(l)	(Added by Ord. No. 172,593, Eff. 6/28/99, Oper. 7/1/99.)  In
addition to the requirements of Division 3 for inspections, a satisfactory
acceptance test of the entire fire warning system installation and function
shall be made in the presence and under the direction of a representative of the
Department of Building and Safety and the Los Angeles City Fire Department prior
to final approval.	The test of the fire warning/emergency system may be
conducted by only one representative of the Department of Building and Safety or
the Los Angeles City Fire Department upon approval from both departments.
