                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS. (§ 93.0206)

  PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 176,775, Eff. 8/1/05, Oper. 8/1/05.)	(a)	Plans and
specifications required by the provisions of Subsection (b) of this section
shall be prepared by and bear the signature and registration number of an
appropriate State of California Civil Engineer, Structural Engineer,
Geotechnical Engineer (when the work is supplementary to Civil Engineering
work), Electrical Engineer or Licensed Architect.	EXCEPTION:  Plans and
specifications required for Subdivisions 1, 2 and 4 through 10 of Subsection (b)
of this section may be prepared and signed by a person holding a state license
as a contractor who will perform the work.  The work must be within the
classification for which the license is issued.	(b)	Plans and specifications for
all wiring intended to be installed on the premises shall be submitted to and
approved by the Department before a permit is issued and before installing any
wiring related to the following:	1.	Theaters or motion picture
theaters.	2.	Places of assembly.	3.	All health care facilities within the scope
of Article 517 of the C.E.C.	4.	A new building or an addition to a building if
the computed area exceeds 30,000 square feet (2,787 m2), any installation if the
total load exceeds 400 amperes, or the installation of equipment rated 600
amperes or more.  The computed area shall be the sum of the areas on each floor
bounded by the outside surfaces of the exterior walls and shall include floor
areas beneath building projections that extend more than six feet (1829 mm). 
(Amended by Ord. No. 179,325, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)	5.	All electrical
installations over 600 volts.	6.	Installation in locations classified as
hazardous locations, unless otherwise satisfactory to the
Department.	7.	Projects which include the installation of exit signs, egress
lighting or security lighting.	8.	Installation of a complicated electrical
system as determined by the Department, such as, Emergency, Legally Required
Standby, Fire Alarm, and Gas Detection Systems, except for the
following:	(i)	The addition of strobe power supplies and their attached devices
connected to any existing fire control unit or panel.	(ii)	The installation of
special extinguishing, central station monitoring systems, dialers, and their
attached devices.	(iii)	The addition of any fire warning devices connected to an
existing programmable fire warning system.	9.	Installation of lighting fixtures
weighing more than 300 pounds.	10.	Installation of electrical devices, equipment
and lighting systems, subject to the California Energy Code.	(c)	The applicant
shall submit two sets of plans and specifications to the Department for
approval.  The applicant shall keep one set of approved plans on the job site,
and shall make the plans available to the authorized representative of the
Department upon request.	(d)	When the plans or specifications do not comply with
all provisions of this Code, the necessary changes or revisions shall be made
thereto by the person specified in Subsection (a) of this section or by his or
her duly authorized agent.	(e)	Every plan shall be a print or other type of plan
approved by the Department.  The information contained on a plan shall be
clearly legible and specifically indicated, and shall comply with Section
93.0207.  No plan for electrical wiring in a building shall be of a scale
smaller than 1/8 inch (3.2 mm) per foot (304.8 mm) unless a smaller scale is
approved by the Department.  Symbols satisfactory to the Department shall be
used on all plans.	(f)	Specifications, legibly and definitely stated, shall be
included either on the plan or on separate sheets.	(g)	The approval of any plan
or specification shall not be construed to sanction any violation of this
Code.	(h)	No person shall materially deviate from any approved plan, or fail,
neglect or refuse to comply therewith, unless permission to do so has first been
obtained from the Department.	(i)	A permit shall be secured within the time
limit specified in LAMC Section 98.0603.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,325, Eff.
12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)
