                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

THE CALIFORNIA ELECTRICAL CODE. (§ 93.0700)

  THE CALIFORNIA ELECTRICAL CODE.	Chapters 1 through 9, Annex C, F and G of the
2008 Edition of the National Electrical Code (N.E.C.), as published by the
National Fire Protection Association (N.F.P.A. 70-2008), the 2010 California
Electrical Code and the California Building Standards Code are adopted by
reference as part of the Code.  When there is a conflict between the 2008
National Electrical Code, the 2010 California Electrical Code and the Los
Angeles Municipal Code, Section 93.0105 shall prevail.  Except as specified in
Divisions 1 through 6 of Article 3, Chapter IX of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code, all electrical installations and materials shall be in conformity with the
2010 California Electrical Code, as adopted by reference to be part of this Code
and Sections 93.515.17 and 93.515.18 are added as provided here.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 181,561, Eff. 3/22/11.)
93.110-33.  ACCESS.
	(Repealed by Ord. No. 176,775, Eff. 8/1/05, Oper. 8/1/05.)
93.350-8.  TEMPORARY SERVICE POLES AND ASSOCIATED FEEDER POLES.
	(Deleted by Ord. No. 174,828, Eff. 10/27/02, Oper. 11/1/02.)
93.370-30.  UNDERGROUND CONCRETE VAULTS AND HANDHOLES.
	(Deleted by Ord. No. 174,828, Eff. 10/27/02, Oper. 11/1/02.)  
93.515-17.  OIL AND GAS WELLS.	(a)	This article shall be applicable to oil or
gas wells located over water, on manmade islands offshore or at land-based
locations.  Area adjacent to oil or gas wells shall be classified as Class I
locations as outlined below, and installations shall comply with the requirement
for those locations.	(b)	Definitions.	ADEQUATE VENTILATION.  (as applied to
enclosed areas)  A mechanical ventilation system supplied from a nonhazardous
source that provides for a minimum of 12 air changes per hour.	ENCLOSED AREA. 
Roofed areas having at least three walls, or open sumps or pits into which
highly volatile liquids are run, or areas surrounded by buildings or walls in
which flammable vapors may accumulate.	LOCOMOTIVE CABLE.  Cable having the
physical property of being oil resistant and constructed as to be suitable for
application on power and control circuits in diesel or electric locomotives and
suitable for oil rigging applications.	POSITIVE PRESSURE VENTILATION.  A
mechanical ventilation system capable of providing a minimum outward air
velocity of 60 feet per minute through all openings.	(c)	Drilling
Wells.	1.	Class I, Division I Locations.  The following areas shall be
classified as Class I, Division I locations:	A.	Below-grade well cellars, sumps
or ditches.  See Figures 2 and 6.	B.	Enclosed and inadequately ventilated areas
below the derrick floor.  See Figure 1.	C.	Enclosed areas containing mud tanks
or shale shakers.  See Figures 3 through 6.	EXCEPTIONS:	1.	Adequately
ventilated enclosed areas shall be permitted to be classified as Class I,
Division 2 locations.	2.	(Over 600 volts, nominal): Oil or gas well in the
process of drilling shall have a Division 2 classification within 25 feet of the
casing, with the 18 inch height limitation adjacent to the drilling platform. 
The entire area directly above and below the drilling platform proper shall be
considered as Division 2 without height limitation.	2.	Class I, Division 2
Locations.  The following areas shall be classified as Class I, Division 2
locations:	A.	Within ten feet horizontally and 18 inches vertically from the
edge of the well cellars or other below grade, Class I, Division I
locations.	B.	Within ten feet radially of the center of the bell nipple in open
derricks.	C.	The entire area above the derrick floor in enclosed
derricks.	D.	Areas adjacent to mud tanks as required in Figures 3 and 4; pits as
required in Figure 2; shale shakers as required in Figure 5; or openings as
required in Figure 2.	EXCEPTION:  In enclosures classified as Class I, Division
I locations in Subdivisions (c) 1 above.	(d)	Producing Wells.	1.	Class I,
Division I locations.  The following areas shall be classified as Class I,
Division I locations:	A.	Below-grade well cellars.  See Figures 7 and
9.	B.	Enclosed areas such as, wellhead, compressor or pump rooms where volatile,
flammable liquids or gases may be present in concentrations sufficient to render
the area a hazardous location.	NOTE:  See Figures 8 through
10.	EXCEPTIONS:	1.	Adequately ventilated enclosed areas shall be permitted to be
classified as Class I, Division 2 locations.	NOTE:  See Figure 7.	2.	(Over 600
volts, nominal):  In case of producing oil wells, the Division 2 classification
shall include an area within three feet of the well casing to a height of three
feet around the stuffing box or lubricator, and the area extending ten feet from
the well casing to a height of 18 inches above the grade level of all producing
oil wells (pumped, flowing or gas injected) having a gas pressure sufficient to
cause gas to be liberated to the atmosphere in quantities to create a hazard to
employees should liberated gas become ignited.  Producing gas wells shall have
a similar classified area.	2.	Class I, Division 2 Locations.  The following
areas shall be classified as Class I, Division 2 locations:	A.	Within ten feet
horizontally and 18 inches vertically from the well casing and three feet
radially from the stuffing box of all producing wells equipped with beam pumping
units.	NOTE:  See Figures 8 and 9.	B.	Within ten feet horizontally and 18
inches vertically above grade from the edge of well cellars or other below grade
Class I, Division I locations.	C.	Within ten feet horizontally and vertically
from openings in enclosed areas classified as Class I, Division I locations in
Subdivision (d) 1. above.	NOTE:  See Figures 3, 5 and 10.	3.	Class I, Division
1 and 2.  Areas within a 10-foot radius of oil field auxiliary equipment such
as gas vents, oil-gas separator vessels, tanks, pumps, compressors and similar
equipment shall be classified in accordance with Figures 11 through
19.	(e)	Overload Protection.  No overload protection will be required for
drilling rigs using railroad locomotive power systems for the draw works, rotary
tables and mud pumps.	NOTE:  In this electrical system, generators, generator
power leads, and DC motors are automatically protected against overload by
inherent characteristics of compound and differential field windings in the DC
motor and generator, respectively.	(f)	Wiring Methods.	1.	General.  Where
drilling platforms are not enclosed around the drilling operation, all wiring
and equipment within 25 feet of the casing of the well being drilled shall be of
the type required for Class I, Division 2 locations, or be installed in enclosed
areas supplied with adequate ventilation.  The electrical power supply to
wiring and equipment within positive pressure ventilated areas shall be arranged
to prevent energizing the electrical wiring and apparatus until air pressure has
been established, for not less than two minutes, and arranged to automatically
actuate an audible and visual alarm with a 5-minute shutdown time delay to allow
safe operational shutdown prior to de-energizing the wiring and apparatus when
the ventilation fails.	Enclosed areas supplied with positive pressure
ventilation from a nonhazardous area shall be permitted to be classified as
nonhazardous areas, provided no flammable vapor source exists within the
enclosed areas.	2.	Locomotive Type Cables.  Special locomotive cables and other
equivalent portable cables may be run in cable trays under the following
conditions in all locations:	A.	Open cable trays may be run horizontally under
floors or ceilings.	B.	In all locations, solid covers shall be installed on
horizontal runs where persons or materials may accidentally contact the
conductors.	C.	Vertical runs of trays shall be totally enclosed.	D.	Where the
rig moves over a series of well holes and a transverse section of cable tray
drops trailing cables in a long fixed runway tray, cleats or other means shall
be used to secure the cable against shifting in the moving section of the
tray.	E.	For single hole setups onshore, cables may be buried in the earth or
run in covered, wooden troughs between outdoor units of equipment.  A
substantial, nominal 2-inch thick wooden cover or equivalent, shall be installed
over the trough.	(g)	Lighting.  Lighting systems for oil or gas well drilling
rigs, production hoists, derricks or masts shall be permitted to be wired using
an approved prefabricated assembly of flexible cables with vulcanized, molded or
other approved terminating receptacle devices so designed that electric arcs
will be confined within the receptacle enclosure which shall be the concealed
contact-type.  The lighting fixture shall be of the type permitted for Class I,
Division I locations, or of the enclosed gasketed-type.  These assemblies shall
be securely fastened to the drilling rig or hoist structure and so located that
they will be protected from physical damage.(Figures 1 – 19 Inclusive,
Relocated from Division 11 by Ord. No. 172,593, Eff. 6/28/99, Oper. 7/1/99.)
93.515-18.  BULK-STORAGE PLANTS-TANKER LOADING DOCKS.	(a)	Scope.  The
provisions of this section shall apply in addition to the requirements of
Article 515 of the C.E.C.	(b)	Definitions.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,325, Eff.
12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)	BULK STORAGE PLANT or TANKER LOADING DOCK
DESIGNATIONS.  The bulk storage plant and tanker loading dock designation shall
also include locations where ships carrying bulk cargoes of gasoline or other
volatile flammable liquids are loaded or unloaded.	WATER LEVEL.  The water
level shall be the measured mean value of the high tide lines.	(c)	Loading and
Unloading Tanker Ships.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,325, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper.
1/1/08.)	1.	The interior of a building, any portion of which is located in a
Class I, Division 2 location, shall be classified as a Class I, Division 2
location.	EXCEPTION:  Buildings that are provided with satisfactory positive
pressure ventilation, and safeguards, with air taken from a clean air source may
be considered to be a nonhazardous location.	2.	All electrical power drive pumps
and transfer apparatus for flammable liquids shall be provided with an
identified “stop” or normal control switch within sight and readily
accessible to the person operating the equipment.
	(d)	Existing Tanker Loading Dock Installations.  All existing electrical
installations at tanker loading docks shall comply with the provisions of this
section and Article 515 of the C.E.C.
93.690-19.  PHOTOVOLTAIC SYSTEMS.
	(Deleted by Ord. No. 179,325, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)
93.695.3.  POWER SOURCE(S) FOR ELECTRIC MOTOR-DRIVEN FIRE PUMPS (EMDFP).
	(Deleted by Ord. No. 181,561, Eff. 3/22/11.)
