                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

EXEMPTED FROM CODE. (§ 93.0108)

  EXEMPTED FROM CODE.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 154,234, Eff. 9/8/80.)	(a)	Railways.  The provisions of
this Code shall not apply to the following electric wiring installed, owned,
maintained or controlled by an interstate, interurban or street
railway;	1.	Electric wiring in any generating plant, central station or
substation used for generating, transforming or transmitting electrical power
used exclusively for operating trains, engines, car or trolley coaches;
or	2.	Overhead and underground distribution systems used exclusively for the
operation of equipment listed in Paragraph 1; or	3.	Electric wiring used
exclusively for signaling and communication purposes.	(b)	Serving Agency.  The
provisions of this Code shall not apply to the following electric wiring
installed, owned, and controlled by an electrical utility or serving agency
which supplies electricity to 100 or more separate premises:	1.	Any generating
plant, receiving station, switching station, distributing station, or industrial
or commercial station under the control of such utility or serving agency. 
However, nothing contained in this subdivision shall be construed to exempt any
electric wiring which is used for general lighting or general power purposes
such as heating, cooling, ventilating, elevators, or pumping equipment; nor to
exempt any feeder, service, switchboard, branch circuit panelboard or standby
power generator used in whole or in part for general building operation
purposes; and  (Amended by Ord. No. 176,775, Eff. 8/1/05, Oper. 8/1/05.)	2.	Any
electrical wiring for its supply lines or mains; and	3.	Service drops to the
service point which are attached to a structure or the outermost exterior wall
of a building, or a roof immediately adjacent to an exterior wall of a building;
and  (Amended by Ord. No. 176,775, Eff. 8/1/05, Oper. 8/1/05.)	4.	Service
laterals and their raceways where installed under not less than two inches of
concrete beneath a building or other structure and not located in a hazardous
location; and  (Amended by Ord. No. 176,775, Eff. 8/1/05, Oper. 8/1/05.)	5.	All
service wiring located within a customer owned station and the high voltage
conductors to such station which have all enclosing conduit encased in three
inches of concrete; and	6.	Service conductors and raceways encased in not less
than two inches of concrete, or raceways that are not concealed, which extend
from an interior station to service equipment located adjacent to the station;
and	7.	Meters of metering equipment.	(c)	Communication Public Utility Systems. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 161,316, Eff. 7/7/86.)	1.	The provisions of this Code shall
not apply to installation of communications equipment under the exclusive
control of communications public utilities, located outdoors or in building
spaces used exclusively for communications purposes in the exercise of its
communications utility functions, except where such communications equipment is
located in a hazardous location or penetrates any fire-resistive wall or floor
system of cable systems that are located in a plenum area or access floor area.
(Amended by Ord. No. 162,834, Eff. 10/26/87.)	2.	Nothing contained in
Subdivision 1 of this subsection shall be construed to exempt any electric
wiring which is used for external, internal, alternating or direct current power
supplies and/or rectifiers exceeding 500va used to supply power to communication
public utility equipment or used for general lighting or general power purposes
such as heating, cooling, ventilating, elevators, or pumping equipment, nor to
exempt any feeder, service, switchboard, branch circuit panelboard or standby
power generator used in whole or in part for general building operation
purposes, except as to communication public utility equipment for the
transmission of audio, data, video and other services housed within a central
office exclusively operated by a communications public utility where such
equipment is not located in hazardous locations.  (Amended by Ord. No. 176,775,
Eff. 8/1/05, Oper. 8/1/05.)	(d)	Vehicles.  The provisions of this Code shall
not apply to any vehicle which complies with the California State Vehicle Act.
This exemption does not include transportable generating, transforming and
related control equipment which is mounted on vehicles and used for the supply
of wiring regulated by this Code.	(e)	Municipal Systems.  The provisions of
this Code shall not apply to a Municipal System for street lighting, traffic
signal or police and fire alarm where installed outside of buildings on public
property.	(f)	Mobile Homes, Travel Trailers, Camp Cars and Mobile Home Parks. 
This Code shall not apply to mobile homes, travel trailers, camp cars and mobile
home parks, including permanent buildings, accessory buildings and wiring
outside of buildings within such parks.	(g)	Hazardous Locations Not Exempted.
(Amended by Ord. No. 172,593, Eff. 6/28/99, Oper. 7/1/99.)  The foregoing
exceptions from the requirements of this Code shall not apply to any electric
wiring located in an area classified as a hazardous location by Article 500 of
the C.E.C.
