                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

AUTHORITY TO CONDEMN INSTALLATIONS. (§ 93.0311)

  AUTHORITY TO CONDEMN INSTALLATIONS.	(a)	When the Department determines that
an electrical installation is in violation of this Code, an order shall be given
to the owner or person in responsible charge of the installation to either
remove or replace the installation. The order shall be in writing and shall
specify the particulars in which the installation is in violation and shall fix
a reasonable time for compliance with the order. In cases of extreme danger to
life or property, as determined by the Department, the order shall further
require that all persons cease using electric current through the installation
and to disconnect the installation at once.	(b)	If the violations continue to
exist by the expiration of the time fixed by the order, or should the Department
find that persons are using an installation that has been ordered disconnected,
the Department is hereby authorized to physically disconnect the portion of the
installation in violation, or to order the serving agency to disconnect electric
service to the consumer’s wiring system.	(c)	Where a disconnection has been
made by the Department a seal shall be attached to the electric wiring at the
point of disconnection.	(d)	The seal shall be of metal and shall be attached to
a tag not less than three inches by four inches in size of substantial paper or
cardboard, red in color, and bearing a printed warning that the installation has
been sealed by the Department. No person shall break, mutilate, destroy or
remove the seal or tag, or energize the wiring until the seal has been removed
by the Department. When the required changes or repairs have been made and the
work inspected and approved, the Department shall cause the seal to be
removed.	(e)	When an electric wiring installation has been sealed by the
Department, a person who causes, permits or allows his agent, servant, employee
or other persons to use such installation prior to the removal of the seal by
the Department or after the seal has been removed or broken by any person other
than a representative of the Department, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.	(f)	(Amended by Ord. No. 172,593, Eff. 6/28/99, Oper. 7/1/99.) 
Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to require a person to
change wiring which complied with the laws and regulations therefor in effect
before the effective date of this Code and which is maintained to comply with
those regulations.	EXCEPTIONS:	1.	When the Department determines that the wiring
may become a hazard to life and property.	2.	Where the occupancy of the building
or premises has been changed in accordance with Section 93.0111.	3.	Where cord
wiring is found in dwelling occupancies it shall be replaced by not less than
two approved receptacle outlets in each kitchen, living room and bedroom.  A
receptacle outlet, which may be one of the kitchen receptacle outlets, must be
provided for each washing machine.  Kitchen receptacle outlets shall be
supplied by at least two branch circuits, one of which may also supply lighting
circuits.	4.	Where existing plug fuseholders are used in new circuits or in
existing circuits with new electric wiring they shall be provided with TYPE S
fuse adapters.  The Department shall require all the fuseholders in an existing
panelboard to be provided with TYPE S adapters where evidence or bridging,
tampering or conditions of over-fusing are found in over 10% of the total number
of fuses.	5.	Where changes are made to utility company transformers or
distribution system of existing electrical installations that causes an increase
of available short-circuit currents, provisions shall be made as required by
Sections 110.9 and 110.10 of the C.E.C. to protect the equipment.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 181,561, Eff. 3/22/11.)
