                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

DEFINITIONS. (§ 94.2003.0)

  DEFINITIONS.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 181,757, Eff. 7/6/11.)	The terms defined here shall apply
to this division and shall be in addition to the terms defined by NFPA in the
Fire Protection Standards adopted in Table 20.1 of this division unless
otherwise stated.  (First Sentence Amended by Ord. No. 179,326, Eff. 12/10/07,
Oper. 1/1/08.)	Acceptance is acceptance by the building official or
Administrative Authority.	Arm-over is a horizontal pipe that extends from the
branch line to a single sprinkler or a sprinkler above and below a ceiling. 
(Added by Ord. No. 179,326, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)	Building Official is
the Superintendent of Building and Safety, or an authorized representative,
charged with the administrative and enforcement of this Code.	Compact Storage is
a system of mobile shelving units, mounted on rails, and designed to provide the
maximum number of rows in a minimum area of floor space.	Out of Operation is the
state of either a pump, a pump driver, a riser, a pressure regulator or any
other fire protection appurtenance being non- functional.  (Added by Ord. No.
180,619, Eff. 5/12/09.)	Pilot Heads are wet fire sprinklers installed over
piping in unsprinklered areas to protect them from fire damage.	Residential
Occupancies are Group R Occupancies.	Sprinkler Alarm is a local alarm unit
assembly or apparatus constructed and installed so that any flow of water from a
sprinkler system equal to or greater than that from a single automatic sprinkler
will result in an audible alarm signal on the premises.	Sprinkler System for
fire-protection purposes is an integrated system of underground and overhead
piping designed in accordance with fire protection engineering standards.  The
installation includes a water supply, such as a gravity tank, fire pump,
reservoir or pressure tank and/or connection by underground piping to a City
main.	The portion of the sprinkler system above ground is a network of specially
sized or hydraulically designed piping installed in a building, structure or
area, generally overhead and to which sprinklers are connected in a systematic
pattern.  The system includes a controlling valve and a device for actuating an
alarm when the system is in operation.  The system is activated by heat or
smoke from a fire and discharges water over the fire area.	Standard is a
document containing only mandatory provisions, using the word “shall” to
indicate requirements.  Explanatory material may be included only in the form
of fine print notes, in footnotes, or in an appendix.	Standpipe System is a wet
or dry system of piping, valves, outlets and related equipment designed to
provide water at specified pressures and installed exclusively for the fighting
of fires, including the following:	Class I is a standpipe system equipped with 2
1/2-inch outlets.	Class II is a wet standpipe system directly connected to a
water supply and equipped with 1 1/2-inch outlets intended for use by the
building occupants.	Class III is a combination standpipe system directly
connected to a water supply and equipped with both 1 1/2-inch outlets for use by
the building occupants and 2 1/2-inch outlets for use by the Fire Department or
other trained personnel.  Hose connections for Class III systems may be made
through 2 1/2-inch hose valves with easily removable 2 1/2-inch by 1 1/2-inch
reducers.	Water Curtain is a line of closely spaced fire sprinklers (or a single
sprinkler) aligned adjacent to openings to keep fire from penetrating those
openings.
