                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

REGISTRATION. (§ 95.118)

  REGISTRATION.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 172,595, Eff. 6/28/99, Oper. 7/1/99.)95.118.1. 
MAINTENANCE SUPERVISOR.  No person shall act in the capacity of a maintenance
supervisor or air balancer for smoke-control systems, unless the person has paid
the filing fee and successfully passed an examination as specified in Section
95.118.3 of this Code.	EXCEPTION:  One who holds a valid contractor’s license
in the proper classification issued by the State of California and personally
performs the work.95.118.2.  APPLICATIONS.	1.	Every applicant for Certificate
of Qualification as a maintenance supervisor or air balancer shall make an
application in writing to the Department on forms furnished for that
purpose.	2.	Every application for a Certificate of Qualification as a
maintenance supervisor or air balancer shall be accompanied by a filing fee as
specified in Section 98.0414 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.	3.	Every
applicant for a Certificate of Qualification as a maintenance supervisor or air
balancer shall be examined as required by the provisions of Section 95.118.3 of
this Code.	Note:  For the purpose of this Code, an air balancer holding a
Certificate of Qualification may qualify to perform work to comply with the
State Energy requirements (Title 24, Parts 1 and 6).95.118.3. 
EXAMINATIONS.	1.	Every applicant for a Certificate of Qualification as a
comfort-heating and cooling maintenance supervisor or a refrigeration
maintenance supervisor or air balancer shall be given an examination to evaluate
that applicant’s knowledge and experience.  The extent and scope of the
examination shall, in the judgement of the Superintendent of Building, be
sufficient to indicate that a person who successfully passes the examination has
the necessary ability to repair, maintain, alter and service refrigeration
equipment, heating appliances, heating systems, gas piping, gas-control devices,
vents for gas appliances, and air balancing in compliance with this Code.  The
examination shall include a written test and an oral interview.	2.	The
Superintendent of Building is hereby granted the power and authority to make and
establish such rules and regulations as he or she may consider necessary for the
proper conduct of the examination.  The results of each examination shall be
subject to review and approval by the Superintendent.95.118.4.  FAILURE TO PASS
EXAMINATION.  No part of any filing fee shall be returned to any applicant who
fails to pass the examination for which the fees were paid.  If any applicant
shall fail to receive the percentage required at the first examination, the
applicant shall be entitled to take a second examination without payment of a
second fee, but shall be required to wait at least two weeks before taking the
second examination.  In case any applicant fails to pass the second
examination, the applicant shall be required to wait at least six months before
he or she may file another application for examination, at which time the
applicant shall pay another filing fee.95.118.5.  ISSUANCE OF
CERTIFICATE.	1.	Every applicant for a Maintenance Certificate of shall make
application to the Department on forms furnished for that purpose.  The
application shall provide the following information:	A.	Business name and
address of applicant.	B.	The signature of the responsible managing
officer.	C.	The name of the maintenance supervisor.	2.	Before a Maintenance
Certificate of Registration is issued to any person, that person shall pay a
registration fee as specified in Section 98.0414 of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code.	3.	Each Maintenance Certificate of Registration issued shall expire one
year following the date of issuance, but may be renewed from year to year upon
payment of an annual renewal fee as specified in Section 98.0414 of the Los
Angeles Municipal Code, which must be paid not later than 30 days after the date
of expiration.	4.	The Department shall issue a Certificate of Qualification as a
maintenance supervisor or air balancer to any person who has successfully passed
the examination prescribed in Section 95.118.3.	5.	Every Certificate of
Qualification as maintenance supervisor or air balancer shall expire one year
following the date of issuance, buy may be renewed from year to year by the
payment of an annual fee as specified in Section 98.0414 of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code within 30 days after the date of expiration.	6.	A maintenance
supervisor shall be limited to perform only the labor for maintenance, repair,
addition to or alteration of existing equipment on premises owned by or under
control of the holder of a valid Maintenance Certificate of
Registration.95.118.6.  REVOCATION, SUSPENSION AND VOIDING OF
CERTIFICATES.	1.	Any Certificate of Registration or Certificate of Qualification
required by this Code may be suspended or revoked in accordance with the
provisions of Article 8 of this chapter.	2.	Any person whose certificate is
revoked hereunder shall not, for a period of 30 days thereafter, be eligible for
a new certificate and shall receive a new certificate only after passing the
required examination and paying the required fee.	3.	The revocation of any
Certificate of Registration or Certificate of Qualification shall not exempt the
holder from any other penalty provided in this Code.	4.	A Certificate of
Registration shall become void 30 days after a maintenance supervisor is no
longer in the employ of a holder of a Certificate of Registration.	5.	A
Certificate of Qualification shall become void when the maintenance supervisor
is no longer in the employ of the holder of a Certificate of
Registration.95.118.7.  EXHIBITION OF MAINTENANCE CERTIFICATE.  Every person
holding a Certificate of Qualification as a maintenance supervisor or air
balancer shall exhibit that certificate to authorized personnel of the
Department upon demand.95.118.8.  TRANSFER OF CERTIFICATES.  No Certificate of
Registration or Qualification shall be transferable.95.118.9.  EXPIRED
CERTIFICATES.	1.	Expired certificates may be renewed at any time within 12
months following the date of expiration provided that, after the first month,
the renewal fee shall be increased by 10 percent for each month after the
first.	2.	After a certificate has been expired for one year, it may not be
renewed.  A new application and payment of the filing fees set forth in
Sections 95.118.2 and 118.5 of this Code will be required.
