                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

PURPOSE. (§ 95.102)

  PURPOSE.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 172,595, Eff. 6/28/99, Oper. 7/1/99.)	The purpose of this
Code is to safeguard life, health, property and public welfare by regulating the
design, construction, installation, alteration, repair, quality of materials,
location, operation and maintenance of heating, ventilating, air-conditioning
and refrigeration equipment and other miscellaneous heat-producing appliances
installed in the City.  The provisions of this Code are not intended to apply
to equipment installed on railroad cars, motor vehicles, aircraft or on
shipboard that are not used as permanent occupancies for longer than six
months.	For other requirements concerning the installation of ventilating
equipment, see Article 7, Chapter V of the Los Angeles Municipal Code (Fire
Code); Article 3, Chapter IX of the Los Angeles Municipal Code (Electrical
Code); Article 1, Chapter IX of the Los Angeles Municipal Code (Building Code);
and the Los Angeles County Public Health Code.	The provisions of Chapter 1,
Division II, Appendices A and D, and Chapters 2 through 17 of the 2010 Edition
of the California Mechanical Code prepared by the International Association of
Plumbing and Mechanical Officials and amended by the California Building
Standards Commission, are adopted by reference as part of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code with amendments in the form of exceptions, modifications,
deletions, supplements and additions, which have been added to Article 5,
Chapter IX of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.  Chapter references are to
chapters of the California Mechanical Code.  The abbreviation “C.M.C.”
shall mean and refer to the 2010 Edition of the California Mechanical Code. 
References to “LAMC” or “Code” shall mean the Los Angeles Municipal
Code.  (Amended by Ord. No. 181,685, Eff. 5/2/11.)	Except as specified in this
division, all heating, air-conditioning, ventilation, refrigeration and
miscellaneous heat-producing appliance installations and materials shall be in
conformity with the California Mechanical Code as adopted by reference.
