                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

APPLICATION FOR PERMIT. (§ 95.113)

  APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 174,827, Eff. 10/27/02, Oper. 11/1/02.)95.113.1. 
APPLICATIONS.	1.	To obtain a permit, the applicant shall file an application on
forms furnished by the Department.  The application shall contain all
information necessary to the lawful enforcement of the provisions of this
Code.	2.	The application shall be accompanied by approved plans and
specifications when required by this Code.	3.	When the Department determines
that the information on the application is in conformance with this Code, the
Department shall issue a permit upon receipt of the total fees.95.113.2.  PLANS
AND SPECIFICATIONS.	1.	Except for minor installations satisfactory to the
Department, plans and specifications for the complete installation of
comfort-heating systems, comfort-cooling systems, absorption units, ventilation
systems and hoods shall be filed with the Department and approved before the
issuance of any permit for the following:  (First Paragraph Amended by Ord. No.
179,327, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)	A.	Comfort-Heating, Comfort-Cooling,
Absorption Unit and Ventilation Systems:  (Title Amended by Ord. No. 179,327,
Eff. 12/10/07, Oper. 1/1/08.)	1.	Installations where the aggregate Btu/h input
capacity is 500,000 Btu/h (146,500 W) and over for comfort heating, or for
comfort cooling, or for absorption units.  (Amended by Bill No. 181,685, Eff.
5/2/11.)	EXCEPTIONS:	1.	Duct alterations.	2.	Addition of air conditioning
equipment having a rating of 5 tons or less.	3.	Addition of general ventilation
exhaust fans having a rating of 2000 cfm or less.	4.	Replacing air conditioning
equipment with the same size and type.	2.	(Deleted by Bill No. 181,685, Eff.
5/2/11.)	B.	Smoke-control systems.	C.	Any comfort-cooling compressor or
refrigeration compressor for any system which requires a machinery room. 
(Amended by Bill No. 181,685, Eff. 5/2/11.)	D.	Any commercial cooking hood and
ventilation system, except for approved vent-less hoods that are installed in
accordance with the manufacturer’s installation instructions and other
conditions of approval as determined by the Los Angeles City Testing
Laboratory.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,327, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper.
1/1/08.)	E.	Product conveying ventilation systems.	2.	One complete set of plans
and specifications shall be filed for checking before approval is given by the
Department.  After approval, the plans shall be returned to the applicant. 
The approved set of plans shall be on the job site for availability during
construction and inspection.  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,327, Eff. 12/10/07,
Oper. 1/1/08.)	3.	When the plans and specifications do not comply with
provisions of this Code, the necessary changes or revisions shall be
made.	4.	The information contained on the plans shall be clearly legible and
specifically indicated.  No plan shall be of a scale smaller than 1/8 inch per
foot .	5.	Specifications, when submitted, shall be legible and definitively
stated, and be included either on the plans or on separate sheets.	6.	The
approval of any plans or specifications shall not be construed to sanction any
violation of this Code.	7.	No person shall materially deviate from approved
plans or specifications or fail, neglect or refuse to comply with those plans or
specifications unless permission to do so has first been obtained from the
Department.	8.	Plans and specifications shall be prepared by and bear the
signature and registration number of a professional engineer in an appropriate
discipline who is duly registered by the State of California Board of
Registration for Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors, except as provided
by the State of California Business and Professions Code. 95.113.3. 
INFORMATION ON PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.	1.	The plans or specifications shall
show all of the following:  (Amended by Ord. No. 179,327, Eff. 12/10/07, Oper.
1/1/08.)	A.	The layout for each floor with dimensions of all working spaces and
a legend of all symbols used;	B.	The location, size and materials of all air
ducts, air inlets and air outlets;	C.	The location of all fans, warm-air
furnaces, boilers, absorption units, refrigerant compressors and
condensers;	D.	The rated capacity or horsepower of all boilers, warm-air
furnaces, heat exchangers, blower fans, refrigerant compressors and absorption
units;	E.	The location, size and materials of all combustion products, vents and
chimneys;	F.	The location and area of all ventilation and combustion-air
openings and ducts;	G.	The location of all air dampers, fire dampers,
smoke-control dampers and combustion-products-type smoke detectors;	H.	The
information necessary to show compliance of the mechanical equipment with the
state energy standards;	I.	The occupancy of each area served by any heating,
air-conditioning or ventilation system;	J.	The location of all required fire-
resistive separations that are penetrated by ducts or openings of any heating,
air-conditioning or ventilation system;	K.	The complete drawings of all
commercial hoods and ventilation systems, including the cooking appliances
served by the hoods, and verify:	1.	The interconnection of the fire-
extinguishing system and fuel shutoff devices;	2.	Compliance with Health
Department requirements; and	3.	Compliance with South Coast Air Quality
Management District requirements.	L.	The weight of the equipment.  (Amended by
Bill No. 181,685, Eff. 5/2/11.)	2.	All plans and specifications required by this
section shall be drawn with indelible pencil or drawn or printed in ink, or made
by reproduction process which produces a permanent print.  Every sheet of each
set of plans and specifications shall show the address of the proposed work and
the name and address of the owner or lessee of the premises.	The plans and
specifications shall be of sufficient clarity to show that the proposed
installation will conform to the provisions of this Code and of all applicable
laws, ordinances, rules, regulations and orders.95.113.4.  QUALIFIED
INSTALLER.  It is unlawful for any person who is not a qualified installer to
install, alter, reconstruct or repair any equipment regulated by this Code
unless the person is under the direct supervision of a qualified installer.	A
qualified installer is:  	1.	A person who holds a valid contractor’s license
in the proper classification issued by the State of California; or	2.	A person
who holds a valid Maintenance Certificate of Registration issued pursuant to the
provisions of this Code; or	3.	A person who is the owner of a single-family
dwelling and has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Department his or her
qualifications to satisfactorily perform mechanical work in the dwelling which
is occupied by the owner, and their accessory buildings, provided that all of
the following conditions are met:	A.	The work is performed prior to sale of the
dwelling. 	B.	The home owner has actually resided in the residence for the 12
months prior to completion of the work. 	C.	The homeowner has not availed
himself or herself of this exemption on more than two structures during any
three year period. 	4.	A person who is employed by a governmental agency that
is required to comply with the provisions of this Code, and who is qualified, as
determined by the Department, to supervise or control any work regulated by this
Code.
