                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

EXCAVATING, DEPOSITING, DUMPING – EARTH, SAND, GRAVEL, ETC. – WHERE
PROHIBITED. (§ 96.02)

  EXCAVATING, DEPOSITING, DUMPING – EARTH, SAND, GRAVEL, ETC. – WHERE
PROHIBITED.

	(a)	No person shall, upon any private property within any residence district as
described in the zoning laws of this City, dig, excavate, separate, screen or
dredge for sand, gravel, earth, rock, stone, minerals, or any other substance so
as to cause sand, dust or dirt to be either blown or deposited over and upon the
inhabited premises of others or across or upon any public way, and no person
shall, in connection with any such operation, cause loud noises by the use of
steam shovels, tractors, trucks or other power machinery to be made, to the
annoyance of occupants of adjacent or nearby habitations.

	(b)	No person shall, upon any private property within any residence district,
as described in the zoning laws of this City, dump or deposit, to a level above
the official grade of an abutting street, any loose earth, sand, gravel or any
other similar material so as to cause or result in sand, dust or dirt being
blown over and upon the inhabited premises of others, or across any public way,
or so as to cause or allow such materials to be washed or eroded over and upon
the premises of another or upon any public way.

	(c)	The foregoing prohibitions shall not apply to work necessary for the
erection or alteration of a building or structure pursuant to a valid building
permit issued therefor under the provisions of Article 1 of Chapter 9 of this
Code; nor to improvement work done pursuant to a plan for subdividing and
improving land carried out as contemplated by Ordinance No. 79,310, nor to work
done pursuant to an express permit therefor issued under Article 4 of Chapter 6
of this Code or under any other ordinance of this City. Provided, however, that
no person shall claim the benefit of this exception who does not, diligently and
without unnecessary or unreasonable delay, prosecute such exempted improvement
work to completion, in a manner calculated to avoid undue annoyance to the
occupants of nearby habitations.

	(d)	No person shall dump, deposit, move or place any earth, sand, gravel, rock,
debris or other material, or maintain, permit or allow the same to remain in a
condition so as to create the danger, possibility or probability that the same
will roll, slip, slide, erode, flow or wash upon or over any public, or
privately owned property without prior written consent of the owner thereof, or
upon or over any public place, highway, street, alley or way.

	(e)	No person shall, when hauling any earth, sand, gravel, rock, stone, debris,
paper or any other substance over any public street, alley or other public
place, allow such materials to blow or spill over and upon the public street,
alley or other public place or adjacent private property.

	(f)	No person shall, when excavating, compacting, hauling or moving earth,
sand, gravel, rock, stone, debris, or any other similar substance, cause, allow,
or permit any mud, earth, sand, gravel, rock, stone, debris or other substance
to drop, be deposited, or fall from the body, tires, or wheels of any vehicle so
used upon any public street or alley without immediately and permanently
removing the same therefrom.
