                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ISSUANCE OF APPROVALS – PROCEDURES. (§ 96.204)

  ISSUANCE OF APPROVALS – PROCEDURES.	(a)	Applications.  Applications for
initial approvals shall be made on forms provided by the Department, which forms
shall include a statement that the applicant agrees to pay all inspection
charges imposed pursuant to Subsection (i) of this section. No application will
be accepted unless accompanied by the appropriate fee as hereinafter set forth,
which fee is unrelated to the inspection charges imposed pursuant to Subsection
(i) of this section.  (Amended by Ord. No. 165,310, Eff. 12/31/89.)	(b)	Fees. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 180,868, Eff. 10/22/09.)  A fee of $1,207.00 shall
accompany each application for approval and a renewal fee of $905.00 shall
accompany each application for renewal.  A fee of $679.00 shall be charged for
the approval of each branch plant and shall be in addition to fees required for
the main fabricator plant.  A renewal fee of $264.00 shall be charged for the
renewal of each branch plant in addition to the main fabricator plant.  A fee
of $679.00 shall accompany each application for a major modification (includes
changes in a quality control system or key management personnel) and a fee of
$226.00 shall accompany each application for a clerical modification.	A fee of $
377.00 shall accompany each request for acceptance of a material fabricated by
an unauthorized fabricator.  This request will be accepted only once from any
individual fabrication company.  Inspection and travel charges shall be the
same as those charged to an applicant seeking to become an authorized
fabricator.	EXCEPTION:  An unauthorized fabricator who has filed a complete and
acceptable application and submittal requesting to become an authorized
fabricator and has paid the application fee may submit additional requests
provided:	1.	A separate application is made for each request, and	2.	A fee of
$362.00 accompanies each request.	The fees for approval of new fabricators
include four hours of Departmental processing time.  The fees for major
modifications of fabricators and for approval of a branch plant include four
hours of Departmental processing time.	The fees for a material fabricated by an
unauthorized fabricator include two hours of Departmental processing time.  The
fees for renewals and minor modifications include three hours and one and
one-half hours, respectively, of Departmental processing time.	The applicant
shall agree in writing as part of the application, to pay supplemental fees at
the rate of $113.00 per hour to cover the time of processing that is in excess
of the time provided for in the approval, renewal or modification fee specified
in this section.  Processing shall include those activities directly related to
the approval of fabricators for which an application has been made and shall
include all research, review, investigation, plant inspection, travel,
correspondence, clerical and consultation time pertinent to the application. 
The Department may require an estimated supplemental fee to cover the cost of
time and travel expense to be paid at the time of filing the application and/or
before any travel to plants outside of the State of California.  However, the
applicant shall pay  the supplemental fee in full prior to final action on the
application by the Department.	The fees specified in this section, including
supplemental fees, and application fees are not refundable once work has been
performed by the Department, regardless of whether the action taken is approval
or denial.	EXCEPTION:  Supplemental fees paid in advance, which are in excess
of the total actual fees, may be refundable.	(c)	Duration of Approval.  Any
approval issued pursuant to the provisions of this division shall remain valid
for a period of one year from the date of issuance thereof unless revoked by the
Department pursuant to the provisions of this division.	(d)	Investigation of
Application.  The General Manager shall investigate every application submitted
pursuant to Subsection (a) of this section to determine whether the applicant
possesses qualifications sufficient to justify the issuance of the requested
approval. In making this determination the General Manager may consider the
experience, education and training of the applicant and his employees; the
quality control standards maintained by the applicant; the equipment and
facilities of the applicant; and the physical plant which will be designated in
the requested approval if the same is issued. The General Manager may also
consider any other factors pertaining to the manufacturing processes of the
applicant as he may, in the reasonable exercise of his discretion, deem to be
relevant.	(e)	Action Upon Applications.  (Amended by Ord. No. 165,310, Eff.
12/31/89.)  If it is determined that an applicant possesses qualifications
sufficient to justify the issuance of the requested approval, the Department
shall issue the same to the applicant. If a contrary determination is made, the
application shall be denied and the Department shall notify the applicant of
that action. Such notification shall be in writing and shall specify the reasons
for the denial. Initial applications will expire 12 months after the filing date
if the request for approval of a fabricator has not been cleared of corrections
and approved. No approval shall be issued until the application is refiled and a
new fee paid.	EXCEPTION:  The Department or the Board may grant extensions of
time if an applicant submits in writing sufficient evidence that unusual
conditions or circumstances precluded the approval within the allocated
time.	(f)	Conditional Approvals.  The Department may impose reasonable
conditions precedent upon the issuance of approvals and may include in any
approval special conditions deemed necessary to insure that the work to be
performed under such approval will comply with the provisions of Chapter IX of
the Los Angeles Municipal Code. Such special conditions may include, but are not
limited to, special quality control procedures and requirements for specific
identification of particular materials. Any special conditions included in an
approval shall impose mandatory duties on the fabricator to comply
therewith.	(g)	Rules and Regulations.  The General Manager shall establish such
rules and regulations as he may deem appropriate relative to the
following:	1.	The implementation of the investigatory duties imposed upon him by
Subsection (d) of this section;	2.	The maintenance of standards applicable to
the facilities, equipment, employees and physical plants of approved
fabricators.	3.	Such other matters as are within the scope of this
division.	(h)	Inspections.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,175, Eff. 7/25/96.)	1.	The
General Manager of the Department shall cause to be made such inspections of a
fabricator’s facilities, equipment, procedures, materials and construction
sites upon delivery of fabricated products as, in the reasonable exercise of
discretion, shall be deemed necessary to carry out the purpose of this
division.  Such inspections may consist of any or all of the following:	Initial
Inspections.  Inspections conducted prior to the issuance of an approval for
which an application has been made.	Annual Inspections.  In-plant inspection at
least once a year.	Periodic Monitoring Inspections.  Unannounced in-plant
inspections of the premises of a fabricator to whom an approval has been
issued.	Job Inspections.  On-site or in-plant inspection of fabricated material
to be used at construction sites within the City.	Requested Inspections. 
Inspections conducted at the specific written request of a fabricator at a
prearranged time and inspections conducted of fabricated material of an
unlicensed fabricator.	2.	All in-plant inspections of fabrication facilities
will be performed by Department personnel, except that an initial inspection
conducted prior to the issuance of a Type I approval applicable to facilities
situated more than 60 miles from the Los Angeles City Hall may, at the election
of the applicant, be performed by an approved testing agency.  Such inspection
by an approved testing agency, however, will not preclude such further
investigation relative to the application as the General Manager of the
Department, pursuant to Subsection (d) hereof, may deem
necessary.	(i)	Inspection Charges.  (Amended by Ord. No. 180,868, Eff.
10/22/09.)	1.	Whenever an inspection is conducted by Department personnel at
facilities located more than 60 air miles from the Los Angeles City Hall,
whether such inspection be conducted pursuant to Subsection (d) or Subsection
(h) of this section, or both, the fabricator shall reimburse the City of Los
Angeles for the cost thereof in accordance with the following:	A.	Automobile
Travel.  Mileage at the City rate per mile for all miles driven, both ways,
between a point 60 miles from Los Angeles City Hall to the facilities where the
inspection is to be conducted, plus $98.00 per hour for all inspection and
travel time for each inspector required.	B.	Air Travel.  The coach-class fare
of a regularly scheduled airline from and to Los Angeles International Airport
and the airport closest in proximity to the facilities to be inspected; the cost
of motor vehicle transportation to and from such airport and such facilities;
inspection and travel time at the rate of $98.00 per hour for each inspector
required.	C.	Per Diem.  Per diem at the rate of $52.00 per day for inspections
requiring more than eight hours of combined travel and inspection time.  The
cost of lodging and meals required during the combined travel and inspection
time.	2.	Whenever periodic monitoring inspections, requested inspections, or job
inspections are conducted by Department personnel at facilities or sites 60 air
miles or less from the Los Angeles City Hall, the fabricator shall pay the City
of Los Angeles a fee of $98.00 per inspection, per inspector, plus $98.00 per
hour for all inspection and travel time in excess of one hour.	3.	The Department
may require an estimated travel expense fee to be paid prior to inspection.	The
initial application for approval, and the renewal application, shall include a
statement that the applicant agrees to pay all inspection charges imposed
pursuant to this subsection.	(j)	Notification.  Prior to fabrication of
products to used within the City, the licensed fabricator shall notify the
Department of all fabrication schedules and delivery dates.  (Added by Ord. No.
165,310, Eff. 12/31/89.)	(k)	Identification.  All fabricated products to be
used within the City shall be identified in a manner acceptable to the
Department.  (Added by Ord. No. 165,310, Eff. 12/31/89.)
