                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

APPLICATION. (§ 96.303)

  APPLICATION.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 180,619, Eff. 5/12/09.)	Upon written application by the
owner or the owner’s agent to the Department of Building and Safety on forms
provided by the City and the payment of a fee specified herein to the Department
of Building and Safety, the Superintendent of Building and the City Engineer
shall review the appropriate City records.  This application shall contain the
name and address of the owner, the legal description, the county assessor’s
map book page and parcel number and, if available, the street address of the
residential property for which the reports are sought.	The application for the
report regarding a sale or exchange of a residential property shall not be
accepted by the Department of Building and Safety until such time as the
applicant provides the Department of Building and Safety with one of the
following:	1.	A declaration under penalty of perjury by the owner certifying
that in the residential property for which the report is sought:	(a)	Smoke
detectors have been installed in accordance with Section 91.8603 of the Los
Angeles Municipal Code; and	(b)	Impact hazard glazing has been installed in
accordance with Section 91.6101 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code; and	(c)	Water
conservation devices have been installed in accordance with Section 122.03 of
the Los Angeles Municipal Code;	(d)	Metal bars, grilles, grates, security
roll-down shutters, and similar devices over emergency escape windows in
sleeping rooms have been installed in accordance with Section 91.6304.3 of the
Los Angeles Municipal Code; and	(e)	Lights and locks have been installed in
accordance with Section 91.8607 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code;
and	(f)	Seismic gas shutoff valves have been installed in accordance with
Section 94.1219 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.	2.	A declaration under
penalty of perjury by the owner certifying that in the residential property for
which the report is sought:	(a)	Smoke detectors will be installed in accordance
with Section 91.8603 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code; and	(b)	Impact hazard
glazing will be installed in accordance with Section 91.6101 of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code.	The owner shall further certify that such smoke detectors and/or
impact hazard glazing will be installed prior to entering into an agreement of
sale or contracting for an exchange of a residential property, or, where an
escrow agreement has been executed in connection therewith, prior to close of
escrow, and that within ten days after the smoke detectors and/or impact hazard
glazing is/are installed he/she will so advise the Department of Building and
Safety in writing; and	(c)	Water conservation devices will be installed in
accordance with Section 122.03 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code;	(d)	Metal
bars, grilles, grates, security roll-down shutters, and similar devices over
emergency escape windows in sleeping rooms will be installed in accordance with
Section 91.6304.3 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code; and	(e)	Lights and locks
will be installed in accordance with Section 91.8607 of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code; and	(f)	Seismic gas shutoff valves will be installed in
accordance with Section 94.1219 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.	3.	A
declaration under penalty of perjury by the buyer certifying that in the
residential property for which the report is sought:	(a)	Smoke detectors will be
installed in accordance with 91.8603 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code Section;
and	(b)	Impact hazard glazing will be installed in accordance with Section
91.6101 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.	The buyer shall further certify that
such smoke detectors and/or impact hazard glazing will be installed within 30
days after entering into an agreement of sale or contracting for an exchange of
a residential property, or, where an escrow agreement has been executed in
connection therewith, within 30 days after close of escrow, and that within 10
days after the smoke detectors and/or impact hazard glazing is/are installed
he/she will so advise the Department of Building and Safety in writing;
and	(c)	Water conservation devices have been installed in accordance with
Section 122.03 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code;	(d)	Metal bars, grilles,
grates, security roll-down shutters, and similar devices over emergency escape
windows in sleeping rooms have been installed in accordance with Section
91.6304.3 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code; and	(e)	Lights and locks have been
installed in accordance with Section 91.8607 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code;
and	(f)	Seismic gas shutoff valves will be or have been installed in accordance
with Section 94.1219 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.	4.	The Department of
Building and Safety shall deliver to the applicant, either in person or by mail,
the reports required within 15 calendar days after the date of the acceptance of
the application.	5.	The owner must also provide a declaration under penalty of
perjury that he or she has inspected the property for the existence of protected
trees and the number of protected trees, if any, located on the subject
property.  For the purposes of this section, the definition of “protected
tree” set forth in Section 46.01 the Los Angeles Municipal Code shall apply. 
The declaration shall also authorize the Bureau of Street Services within the
Department of Public Works to verify this information by entry upon the subject
property.  A fee may be collected for any inspection required to verify the
declaration.  The fee shall be determined and adopted in the same manner as
provided in Section 12.37 I.1 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code for establishing
fees.
