                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

SURCHARGES FOR DEVELOPMENT OF AUTOMATED SYSTEMS AND GENERAL PLAN MAINTENANCE FOR
THE DEPARTMENT OF CITY PLANNING. (§ 98.0418)

  SURCHARGES FOR DEVELOPMENT OF AUTOMATED SYSTEMS AND GENERAL PLAN MAINTENANCE
FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF CITY PLANNING.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 182,310, Eff. 12/17/12.)	(a)	There shall be added to the
total of all fees imposed for any building permit required by the provisions of
Article 1 of Chapter IX of this Code, an automated systems development surcharge
in an amount equal to the greater of six percent of the fee or $1.00, except
that any other surcharge shall be excluded from the computation of the surcharge
under this subsection.  The Fire Hydrant Fee, Section 91.104.4.4*, and the Arts
Development Fee, Section 91.107.4.6 of this chapter shall also be excluded from
the computation of the surcharge under this subsection.  In addition, an
administrative fee of $5.00 shall be collected each time the surcharge is
collected.  Monies received from this surcharge shall be deposited into the
City Planning Systems Development Fund pursuant to Los Angeles Administrative
Code Section 5.457, except that the $5.00 fee shall be deposited into the
Department of Building and Safety Permit Enterprise Fund and credited to the
departmental receipts of the Department of Building and Safety.	(b)	There shall
be added to the total of all fees imposed for any building permit required by
the provisions of Article 1 of Chapter IX of this Code, a general plan
maintenance surcharge in an amount equal to the greater of five percent of the
fee or $1.00, except that any other surcharge shall be excluded from the
computation of the surcharge under this Subsection.  The Fire Hydrant Fee,
Section 91.104.4.4*, and the Arts Development Fee, Section 91.107.4.6 of this
chapter shall also be excluded from the computation of the surcharge under this
subsection.  The general plan maintenance fee shall be reduced to the greater
of three percent of the building permit fees or $1.00, five years after the
effective date of the ordinance increasing the fee to five percent pursuant to
Section 19.16 of the LAMC.  In addition, an administrative fee of $5.00 shall
be collected each time the surcharge is collected.  Monies received from this
surcharge shall be deposited into the Department of City Planning Long-Range
Planning Special Revenue Fund pursuant to Los Angeles Administrative Code
Section 5.400, except that the $5.00 fee shall be deposited into the Department
of Building and Safety Permit Enterprise Fund and credited to the departmental
receipts of the Department of Building and Safety.	The monies received pursuant
to this Section shall be used for the maintenance of the City’s General Plan
and all associated underlying plans or elements, ordinances, and other
associated planning initiatives.  Forty percent of the monies received between
the effective date of the ordinance increasing the fee to five percent and five
years later shall be used for revisions or amendments to the City’s Zoning
Code (Chapter 1 of this Code), thereafter, this fee shall be reduced to the
greater of three percent of the fee or $1.00.[*Editor's note:  The Fire Hydrant
Fee is found in Section 91.107.4.4.]
