                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

CODE VIOLATION INSPECTION FEE. (§ 98.0421)

  CODE VIOLATION INSPECTION FEE.
	(Title and Section Amended by Ord. No. 181,497, Eff. 2/3/11.)	(a)	  The
Department may impose a fee equivalent to the Department’s actual cost of
investigation or $336.00, whichever is less, whenever the Superintendent of
Building conducts an inspection and issues an order or notice after verification
of violation(s) of any provision(s) of the Los Angeles Municipal Code,
Administrative Code or any Ordinance or State law enforced by the
Department.	The fee may be imposed only after a violation is identified and
verified upon inspection by the Superintendent.  The individual(s) notified,
shall be jointly and severally responsible to ensure that the fee specified in
this section is paid to the Department.  Notification of the fee shall be given
to the property owner, person in control of the property, the actual violator,
tenant in possession and/or business operator as may be relevant and determined
by the Superintendent.	(b)	Notice.  Notification of the order or notice and the
Code Violation Inspection Fee shall be sent by United States Mail in a sealed
envelope, with postage paid, addressed to the last known address of the person
cited as the address appears in the last equalized assessment roll or delivered
in person.  Service of the notice shall be deemed to have been completed at the
time of deposit with the United States Postal Service.	(c)	Collection of the
Code Violation Inspection Fee.  The person cited shall remit the Code Violation
Inspection Fee to the Department within 30 days of the effective date of the
order or notice.  If a permit is required in order to correct a violation
stated in the order or notice, the permit shall not be issued until the Code
Violation Inspection Fee including any late charge is paid.  Failure to pay the
Code Violation Inspection Fee within 30 days after notification will result in a
late charge of two (2) times the Code Violation Inspection Fee plus a 50 percent
(50%) collection fee for a maximum total of $1,176.00.  The Code Violation
Inspection Fee is in addition to any other applicable fee, fine or penalty
specified elsewhere in the Los Angeles Municipal Code, Administrative Code or
any Ordinance or State Law enforced by the Department.	In addition to any other
remedy provided by law, the City may collect any judgment, fee, cost, or charge,
including any permit fees, fines, late charges, or interest, incurred in
relation to the provisions of this section as provided in Los Angeles
Administrative Code Sections 7.35.1 through 7.35.8.	(d) 	Noncompliance Fee.  A
noncompliance fee pursuant to Section 98.0411 may be charged.	(e)	Appeals.  Any
person served with an order or notice may appeal the Code Violation Inspection
Fee or request a slight modification pursuant to the procedures set forth in
Section 98.0403.1 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.	The Department or the Board
may rescind or modify the Code Violation Inspection Fee under the authority
granted by Section 98.0403.1 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.	If the appeal or
request for slight modification is not filed within 30 days after the effective
date of the order or notice or extensions granted therefrom, the determination
of the Department to impose a Code Violation Inspection Fee shall be final.
