                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

EVIDENCE. (§ 98.0308)

  EVIDENCE.	(a)	Rules.  Hearings need not be conducted according to the
technical rules relating to evidence and witnesses.	(b)	Oral   Oral evidence
shall be taken only on oath or affirmation.	(c)	Hearsay Evidence.  Hearsay
evidence may be used for the purpose of supplementing or explaining any direct
evidence, but shall not be sufficient in itself to support a finding unless it
would be admissible over objection in civil actions in courts of competent
jurisdiction.	(d)	Admissibility of Evidence.  Any relevant evidence shall be
admitted if it is the type of evidence on which responsible persons are
accustomed to rely in the conduct of serious affairs, regardless of the
existence of any common law or statutory rule which might make improper the
admission of such evidence over objection in civil actions.	(e)	Exclusion of
Evidence.  Irrelevant and unduly repetitious evidence shall be
excluded.	(f)	Rights of Parties.  Each party shall have these rights:	1.	To
call and examine witnesses;	2.	To introduce exhibits;	3.	To cross-examine
opposing witnesses on any matter relevant to the issues;	4.	To impeach any
witness regardless of which party first called him to testify;	5.	To rebut the
evidence against him;	6.	To represent himself or be represented by anyone of his
choice.	(g)	Failure of Respondent to Testify.  If respondent does not testify
in his own behalf, he may be called and examined as if under
cross-examination.	(h)	Testimony at Direction of Board, Superintendent or
Examiner.  The Board, Superintendent or examiner may direct any person present
to testify in a hearing whether or not such person was subpoenaed to testify. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 139,419, Eff. 11/30/69.)	(i)	Penalty for Failure to Testify
at Hearing. Any person who is present at any hearing either in obedience to a
subpoena or otherwise, and who willfully refuses to be sworn or to answer any
material or proper question when directed by the Board, Superintendent or an
examiner shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.  (Amended by Ord. No. 139,419, Eff.
11/30/69.)
