                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ACCUSATION RE SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSES OR PERMITS. (§ 98.0303)

  ACCUSATION RE SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSES OR
PERMITS.	(a)	Contents.  Whenever a hearing is required or available by this
Code to determine whether a license as defined herein should be revoked
suspended, limited or conditioned, such hearing shall be initiated by filing an
accusation. The accusation shall be verified unless made by a public officer
acting in his official capacity or by a duly appointed representative of the
Department. The verification may be on information and belief.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 139,419, Eff. 11/30/69.)	(b)	Service.  Upon the filing of an
accusation, the Superintendent shall serve a copy thereof on the respondent. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 139,419, Eff. 11/30/69.)	(c)	Method of Service.  The
accusation may be served on the respondent personally or by registered or
certified mail.	(d)	Proof of Service – Time of Taking Effect.  Service by
registered mail shall be effective on the date of mailing, if a registered
letter containing the accusation is mailed, postage prepaid, addressed to the
respondent at the latest address on file with the Department, or as known by the
City Clerk. (Amended by Ord. No. 139,419, Eff. 11/30/69.)	(e)	Appearance –
Objections to Service Waived.  Where a respondent files a notice of defense or
otherwise appears in a proceeding, all objections to the validity of service
shall be deemed waived.	(f)	Instructions With Accusation.  The copy of the
accusation shall include or be accompanied by a statement that respondent may
request a hearing by filing a notice of defense as provided hereinafter within
ten days after service upon him of the accusation, and that failure to do so
will constitute a waiver of his right to a hearing. A postcard or other form,
entitled “Notice of Defense,” shall be included with the accusation, which,
when signed by or on behalf of the respondent and returned to the Department,
will acknowledge service of the accusation and constitute a notice of defense as
provided for hereinafter.  (Amended by Ord. No. 139,419, Eff. 11/30/69.)
