                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

WAIVER OF FEES FOR STRUCTURES DAMAGED IN THE 1994 NORTHRIDGE EARTHQUAKE. (§
98.0419)

  WAIVER OF FEES FOR STRUCTURES DAMAGED IN THE 1994 NORTHRIDGE EARTHQUAKE.
	(Added by Ord. No. 169,813, Eff. 5/10/94.)	Notwithstanding any provision of the
Los Angeles Municipal Code or the Los Angeles Administrative Code to the
contrary, the following provisions shall apply to work performed to demolish,
repair or rebuild a building or structure damaged or destroyed as a result of
the 1994 Northridge Earthquake and its aftermath.	(a)	The Department shall waive
all fees which the Superintendent of Building determines are required by
Articles 1 through 8 of Chapter 9 to repair earthquake damage or to demolish
and/or rebuild a building, structure or portion thereof destroyed as a result of
the Northridge Earthquake Local Emergency.	(b)	In addition, in order to qualify
for the waiver of fee as provided in Subsection (a) above, at the time the owner
makes application for a permit to demolish or build, the owner shall certify and
execute a statement, under penalty of perjury, that any payment or settlement
received or to be received from any insurance company for the loss and/or damage
sustained from the January 17, 1994 Northridge Earthquake and its aftermath does
not or will not include the cost of permits; and that if a payment or settlement
from any insurance company does include the cost of permits, then the owner will
reimburse the City for such cost.	(c)	This ordinance shall apply retroactively
so as to permit the full refund, upon submission of a claim therefor, of all
fees heretofore paid which would have been subject to waiver by the provisions
of this ordinance.  In order to qualify for such reimbursement, an owner must
certify and execute under penalty of perjury a statement as set forth in
Subsection (b) above.	(d)	The waiver of fees provided in this section shall be
in effect until January 17, 1997.  (Amended by Ord. No. 171,168, Eff 8/16/96.)
 
