                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

TESTING AGENCIES. (§ 98.0503)

  TESTING AGENCIES.	Whenever tests or certificates of any material or
fabricated assembly thereof, or of any persons, are required by this chapter,
such tests or certification shall be made by a testing agency approved by the
Superintendent to conduct such tests or provide such certifications. Approvals
of testing agencies shall be issued for a period of one year and may be renewed
for additional one-year periods.	(a)	The Superintendent shall establish rules
and regulations setting forth conditions and provisions precedent to the
issuance of any such approval and for the conduct of any person or agency so
approved.	(b)	A fee of $1153.00 shall accompany each application for approval
and a renewal fee of $865.00 shall accompany each application for renewal.  A
fee of $648.00 shall be charged for the approval of each branch office in
addition to the main office and a renewal fee of $252.00 shall be charged for
the renewal of each branch office in addition to the main office.  A fee of
$648.00 shall accompany each application for a major modification and a fee of
$252.00 shall accompany each application for clerical modification.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 180,868, Eff. 10/22/09.)	EXCEPTION:  Application fees shall not be
required from those agencies, which are located in the United States of America,
established and operating on a nonprofit basis, and	1.	which have an approved
reinspection service; or	2.	which are public universities, colleges or testing
facilities operated by a governmental agency.	The fees for approval of new
include four hours of Department processing time.  The fees for major
modifications of Testing Agencies and review of each branch testing laboratory
include four hours of Department processing time.  The fees for renewal and
clerical modifications include three hours and one and one-half  hours of
Department processing time respectively.	The fees for application review,
investigating and inspecting testing agencies for initial recognition,
modifications or renewals shall be $108.00 per hour for on-site laboratory
inspections and follow-up laboratory inspections and are applicable to all
testing and other types of product approval or evaluation agencies including
those exempted from application fees in the foregoing exception.  Such
inspections performed at off-hours shall be charged a fee at the rate of one and
one-half the hourly fee in this paragraph.  (Amended by Ord. No. 180,868, Eff.
10/22/09.)	The applicant shall agree in writing, as part of the application, to
pay supplemental fees at the rate of $108.00 per hour to cover the time of
processing which is excess of the time provided for in the approval, renewal or
modification fee specified in this section.  Processing shall include those
activities directly related to the approval of Testing or other product approval
Agencies for which an application has been made and shall include all research,
review, correspondence, clerical and consultation time pertinent to the
application.  The Department may require an estimated supplemental fee to cover
the time and travel expense which shall be paid at the time of filing the
application and/or before any travel to laboratories outside of the State of
California; however, the supplemental fee shall be paid in full prior to final
action on the application by the Department.  (Amended by Ord. No. 180,868,
Eff. 10/22/09.)	The fees specified in this section, including supplemental fees,
and application fees are not refundable once work has been performed by the
Department, regardless of whether the action taken is approved or
denied.	EXCEPTION:  Supplemental fees paid in advance, which are in excess of
the total actual fee shall be refundable.	Initial applications, modifications,
renewals and branch approvals shall expire 12 months after the Department has
started work on the application if the request for approval of a testing agency
has not been cleared of corrections and approved.  No approval shall be issued
until the application is filed and a new fee paid.	EXCEPTION:  The Department
or the Board on appeal may grant extensions of time if an applicant submits in
writing sufficient evidence that unusual conditions or circumstances precluded
the approval within the allocated time, provided that such appeals are submitted
within the time period required by Section 98.0501(d) of this Code.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 180,868, Eff. 10/22/09.)	(c)	The Superintendent may suspend or
revoke an approval upon evidence of failure of the agency or person so approved
to properly conduct any test or certify any material or assembly of material in
a manner required by Chapter 9, or for any of the reasons set forth in this
article.
	In any action to suspend or revoke an approval, the procedure prescribed by the
provisions of this article shall be followed.	(d)	(Added by Ord. No. 162,434,
Eff. 7/6/87.)  In order to determine compliance with applicable rules or
regulations, the Superintendent may inspect the premises of any testing agency
approved or seeking Superintendent approval. Such inspection shall be conducted
during regular working hours and at other reasonable times.	The Superintendent
or his authorized representatives may, during the course of any investigation or
inspection, obtain statistics, information or, other physical materials which
are directly related to the purpose of the investigation or inspection.	The
Superintendent may collect fees for the inspection of a testing agency as
necessary to cover the actual cost of having an initial inspection performed.	An
additional fee may, in the discretion of the Superintendent, be charged for
necessary subsequent inspections to determine if applicable ordinances, rules,
or regulations governing testing agencies have been and are being met.	The
initial application for approval, and the renewal application shall include a
statement that the applicant agrees to pay all inspection charges imposed
pursuant to this subsection.	Whenever an inspection is conducted by Department
personnel at facilities located more than 60 miles from Los Angeles City Hall,
the applicant shall reimburse the City of Los Angeles for the cost thereof in
accordance with the same charges as imposed for automobile and air travel, per
diem and travel time as specified in Subsection 96.204(i) for inspection of
fabrication facilities. These charges are the same for inspections initiated by
the Department or requested by the applicant and are to be paid by the testing
agency.
