                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ALTERNATE MATERIALS, DEVICES AND METHODS OF CONSTRUCTION. (§ 98.0501)

  ALTERNATE MATERIALS, DEVICES AND METHODS OF CONSTRUCTION.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 167,969, Eff. 7/11/92.)	(a)	General Approvals.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 171,175, Eff. 7/25/96.)  The provisions of this Code are not
intended to prevent the use of any material, device or method of construction
not specifically prescribed by this Code, provided any such alternate has been
approved and its use authorized by the Department.  For the purpose of this
section, “general approval” means approval by the Department of any device,
material or method of construction which is not specifically provided for in
Chapter IX of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.	The Department may grant a general
approval for an alternate, provided that the alternate is at least the
equivalent of the prescribed device, material or method of construction in the
Code in terms of quality, effective time period of fire resistance, strength,
effectiveness, durability and safety.  The Department shall require that
sufficient evidence or proof be submitted to substantiate any claims that may be
made regarding the adequacy of any alternate device, material or method of
construction.	The Department may accept as evidence, for purposes of Article 1
of Chapter IX of this Code, valid evaluation reports on alternate materials,
devices or methods of construction developed and published by the International
Code Council Evaluation Service (ICC ES).  These reports may be based upon data
from testing agencies not approved under Section 98.0503 of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code.    (Amended by Ord. No. 180,868, Eff. 10/22/09.)	The
Department shall use Part III, Recognized Standard in addition to Part II, UBC
Standards of Divison 35 of Article 1 Chapter IX of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code in evaluation products for approval where such standard exists for the
product or the material and may use other approved standards which apply.	The
Department may also accept as evidence valid evaluation reports developed and
published by other nationally recognized model code organizations only under the
following circumstances.  Such reports may only be accepted if it is proven to
the satisfaction of the Superintendent that the responsible organization
utilizes a specially trained and experienced engineering review staff, and its
standards of evaluation are at least equal to the Department’s current
evaluation standards.	Before accepting an evaluation report, the Department
shall first verify that the code organization publishing the report has utilized
a testing agency acceptance system which is reasonably equivalent to the current
Department program for testing agency approval.  This system must provide for
conflict of interest safeguards, covering the agency itself, its owners and
individual employees.  These safeguards must be at least equivalent to those
applied by the Department to approved testing agencies.	Before issuing general
approvals based upon the evaluation reports, the Superintendent shall establish
rules and regulations setting forth the procedures and conditions for the review
of evaluation reports developed and published by the International Code Council
Evaluation Service (ICC ES) or other nationally recognized model code
organizations.  (Amended by Ord. No. 180,868, Eff. 10/22/09.)	The Department
determination on an application for general approval may be appealed to the
Board of Building and Safety Commissioners under the applicable provisions of
this article.	(b)	Fees and Term of General Approvals.  (Amended by Ord. No.
169,867, Eff. 7/17/94.)	1.	The application for a general approval of a new
material, device or method of construction pursuant to Article 1 of Chapter IX
of this Code, and the application for a two year renewal of a general approval
shall be accompanied by a fee as set forth in Table 5-A.	An application for a
technical or clerical modification of a general approval shall be accompanied by
a fee as set forth in Table 5-A.	The fees for new general approvals and
technical modifications include six hours of Department processing time.	The
fees for renewals and clerical modifications include three hours and one hour of
Department processing time respectively.	2.	The fees for general approval of a
new material or a new method of construction pursuant to Articles 2, 3, 4, 5 and
7 of Chapter IX of this Code shall be as provided in Section 98.0502(d).	The
initial general approval, when granted, will be valid for one year.  An
application for renewal must be filed before the expiration of the latest
approval or subsequent renewal and, when granted, will be valid for a two year
period.  Sale and installation shall conform to Section 98.0502(h).	3.	The
application fee for the initial review for Department approval of an evaluation
report, pursuant to Article 1 of Chapter IX, shall be as set forth in Table
5-A.  This fee shall be paid in lieu of any other application fee for a general
approval described in this section.	A fee as set forth in Table 5-A shall also
be required for Department review of any clerical or technical modifications of
a valid evaluation report.	The fees for initial review of an evaluation report
and for technical modifications of or additions to, a previously reviewed
evaluation report include six and five hours of Department processing time,
respectively.	The fees for clerical modifications include one hour of Department
processing time.	If a general approval or renewal is based on an evaluation
report issued by a nationally recognized model code organization acceptable to
the Department, then the general approval and subsequent renewal shall be valid
one year and two years respectively or as long as the unrevised evaluation
report, including any renewals, is valid, whichever is less.	The Department
shall review the evaluation reports created pursuant to this section and used as
a basis for general approvals, prior to their expiration in order to verify that
the reevaluation due dates of the reports remain unrevised and fully accurate in
the records of the issuing model code organization.  Evaluation reports renewed
for two years shall be reviewed bi-annually.  An administrative processing fee
as set forth in Table 5-A covering the Department costs of the reevaluation
review and report distribution shall be required from the entity holding the
rights to the general approval.	The fees for review of two year reevaluation
reports anticipate two hours of Department processing time;	4.	The applicant
shall agree in the application, to pay supplemental fees at the rate of $104.00
per hour to cover any additional time required by the Department to process
general approvals, renewals, reevaluations or modifications which are specified
in Subdivisions 1 and 3 of this subsection and any conditional approvals
pursuant to Subdivision 3 of Section 98.0403.2(a) of this Code.  Processing
shall include those activities directly related to the general approval for
which application has been made and shall include all research, review,
correspondence, clerical and consultation time pertinent to the application. 
The Department may require an estimated supplemental fee to be paid when the
application is filed.  In any event, the supplemental fee shall be paid in full
prior to final action on the application by the Department.  (Amended by Ord.
No. 180,868, Eff. 10/22/09.)	The fees specified in this section, including
supplemental fees, are application fees and are not refundable after the
Department begins processing the application, regardless of whether the
application is approved or denied.	EXCEPTION:  Supplemental fees paid in
advance which are in excess of the total actual fee are refundable;	5.	All
applications shall expire 12 months after the Department begins processing the
application if the request for approval of a new material, device or method of
construction has not been cleared of corrective orders and approved.  No
approval shall be issued until the application is refiled and a new fee
paid.	EXCEPTION:  The Department may grant an extension of time if the
applicant submits in writing sufficient evidence that unusual conditions or
circumstances precluded the approval within the allocated time.	(c)	Off-hour
Processing of Evaluation Reports.  (Added by Ord. No. 171,668, Eff. 8/28/97.) 
Upon request by an applicant and accepted by the Department, an off-hour
processing fee per Section 98.0422 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code may be
collected for processing of evaluation reports for alternate
materials.	(d)	Renewal.  (Amended by Ord. No. 169,867, Eff. 7/17/94.)  Upon
expiration of an approval or upon any change in design, material, method of
construction or model designation made during the period of approval, it shall
be unlawful to sell, offer for sale or use a product until a renewal has been
approved under provisions of this section.	(e)	Requests For Extension of Time. 
(Added by Ord. No. 169,867, Eff. 7/17/94.)  Request for extension of time to
file for renewals or obtain approval of general approvals, clerical and
technical modifications, and renewals shall be made within 90 calendar days
following the date of expiration of general approvals and applications for
general approvals, modifications, and renewals.  If such requests for
extensions of time are not received within the allocated time, then a new filing
fee shall be required.TABLE 5-A
FEE SCHEDULE
(Amended by Ord. No. 180,868, Eff. 10/22/09.)
  
    
      
        Item
      
      
        General Approval of Research Reports (By Los Angeles City)
      
      
        General Approval of Evaluation Reports (By a Nationally recognized Model
Code Organization)
      
    
    
      
        1.  Initial application filing
      
      
        $3395.00
      
      
        $2037.00 3
$226.00 4
      
    
    
      
        2.  Renewal application filing 1 (two year)
      
      
        $2942.00
      
      
        
      
    
    
      
        3.  Reevaluation application filing 2 (two year)
      
      
        
      
      
        $905.00 3
$113.00 4
      
    
    
      
        4.  Technical Modification
      
      
        $1509.00
      
      
        $1811.00 3
$226.00 4
      
    
    
      
        5.  Clerical Modification
      
      
        $279.00
      
      
        $279.00 3
$150.00 4
      
    
  
	1 	The Department may approve one year renewals for General Approval of
Research Reports, if the applicant makes such a request in writing and submit
sufficient evidence of the need for a one year renewal.  The fee for a one year
renewal shall be $1,961.00 for General Approval of Research Reports.	2 	The
Department may approve one year reevaluations for General Approval of
Fire-Safety or Life-Safety Product Evaluation Reports, if the applicant makes
such a request in writing and submit sufficient evidence of the need for a one
year reevaluation.  The fee for a one year reevaluation shall be $603.00 for
General Approval of Fire-Safety or Life-Safety Product Evaluation Reports.	3
	Fee for Fire-Safety or Life-Safety Products.	4 	Fee for Non-Fire-Safety and
Non-Life-Safety (non- structural) Products.
