                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

NON-COMPLIANCE FEES. (§ 98.0411)

  NON-COMPLIANCE FEES.
	(Amended by Ord. No. 168,231, Eff. 10/18/92.)	(a)	Noncompliance Fee.  (Amended
by Ord. No. 171,175, Eff. 7/25/96.)  If, in the course of enforcing any state
law or local ordinance, the Department issues an order to a person and the
person fails to comply with that order within 15 days following the due date for
compliance specified in the order and any extension thereof, then the Department
shall have the authority to collect a noncompliance fee.	The purpose of this fee
is to recover a portion of the cost of any additional inspection and
administrative or appeal proceedings incurred by the Department  in order to
enforce the Code or secure compliance with the order.  No more than one such
fee shall be collected for failure to comply with an order.  This noncompliance
fee shall be in addition to fees specified elsewhere in the Los Angeles
Municipal Code.	The Department shall not impose a noncompliance fee unless the
order states that “a proposed noncompliance fee may be imposed for failure to
comply with the order within 15 days after the compliance date specified in the
order or unless an appeal or slight modification is filled within 15 days after
the compliance date”.	EXCEPTION:  If a person against whom an order is issued
appeals that order within 15 days after the compliance date set forth in the
order, then the Department may not impose a noncompliance fee until a final
appeal determination upholding or modifying the underlying Department order has
been made.  The Department may then impose a noncompliance fee only for failure
to comply with the final appeal determination within 15 days after the
compliance date or dates specified in the determination.	(b)	Appeal.  Any
person served with an order and notice of proposed non-compliance fee may appeal
the order and proposed imposition of the non-compliance fee or request a slight
modification pursuant to the procedures set forth in Section 98.0403.1 of this
Code.	The Department or the Board may rescind or modify the proposed
non-compliance fee under the authority granted by Section 98.0403.1 of this
Code.	If the appeal or request for slight modification is not filed within 15
days after the compliance date or extensions granted therefrom, the
determination of the Department to impose and collect a non-compliance fee shall
be final.	(c)	Collection of the Noncompliance Fee.  (Amended by Ord. No.
175,596, Eff. 12/7/03.)  If the Department determines pursuant to Subsections
(a) and (b) of this section that a noncompliance fee is due, then it shall
notify the person cited, by United States mail in a sealed envelope, with
postage paid, addressed to the last known address of the person cited as that
address appears in the last equalized assessment roll.  The notice of
noncompliance fee shall state that: 	“if the noncompliance fee incurred is
not remitted to the Department within 30 days after the date of mailing of this
notice, the Department shall impose a late charge equal to two times the
noncompliance fee and a collection fee equal to 50 percent of the original
noncompliance fee.  Any person who fails to pay the noncompliance fee, late
charge or collection fee shall also pay interest.  Interest shall be calculated
at the rate of one percent per month, or fraction of a month, on the amount of
the noncompliance fee, late charge and collection fee imposed, from the 60th day
after the date of mailing of this notice until the date of payment.”
 	Service of the notice of noncompliance fee shall be deemed to have been
completed at the time of deposit in the United States mail.	The person cited
shall remit the noncompliance fee to the Department within 30 days after the
date of mailing the notice of noncompliance fee.  If the person cited fails to
do so, then the Department may demand payment of the noncompliance fee from the
person cited and may withhold the issuance of building permits, licenses or
approvals to the cited person until the noncompliance fee has been paid.	A late
charge equal to two times the noncompliance fee and a collection fee equal to 50
percent of the original noncompliance fee shall be imposed if the fee is not
paid within 30 days after the date of mailing the notice of noncompliance fee. 
Any person who fails to pay the noncompliance fee, late charge or collection fee
shall also pay interest.  Interest shall be calculated at the rate of one
percent per month, or fraction of a month, on the amount of the noncompliance
fee, late charge and collection fee imposed, from the 60th day after the date of
mailing the notice of noncompliance fee until the date of payment.  Any partial
payments of the noncompliance fee, late charge, collection fee or interest
received shall be applied first to interest, then late charge and collection
fee, and lastly to the noncompliance fee.	The City shall have the right to bring
legal action in any court of competent jurisdiction to enforce the order and
collect the amount of these fees.  In addition to any other remedy provided by
law, the City may collect any judgment, fee, cost, or charge, including any
permit fees, fines, late charges, or interest, incurred in relation to the
provisions of this section as provided in Los Angeles Administrative Code
Sections 7.35.1 through 7.35.8.	(d)	The amount of the non-compliance fee shall
be as shown in Table No. 4 D.TABLE NO. 4-D
(Amended by Ord. No. 180,868, Eff. 10/22/09.)BUILDINGS, OTHER STRUCTURES, OPEN
USES, SIGNS, LICENSES AND EQUIPMENT
  
    
      
        Item
      
      
        Fee
      
    
    
      
        Buildings, Other Structures, Open Uses, Signs, Licenses and Equipment
      
      
        $550.00
      
    
  
GRADING
  
    
      
        Item
      
      
        Fee
      
    
    
      
        Class I Slope Failure*
      
      
        $3,474.00
      
    
    
      
        Class II Slope Failure
      
      
        2,779.00
      
    
    
      
        Class III Slope Failure
      
      
        2,084.00
      
    
    
      
        Other Grading Code Violations
      
      
        1,389.00
      
    
  
* Refer to Section 91.7003 for definition of slope failure classification.
