                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

METHOD OF DECISION IN CONTESTED CASES. (§ 98.0310)

  METHOD OF DECISION IN CONTESTED CASES.	(a)	Hearing Before Board Itself. 
Where a contested case, originally heard before the Board or an examiner or
examiners for said Board, is heard before the Board itself, no member thereof
who did not hear the evidence or has not read the record or proceedings shall
vote on the decision.  (Amended by Ord. No. 139,419, Eff.
11/30/69.)	(b)	Hearing Before Examiner.  If a contested case is heard by a
hearing examiner alone, he shall, within a reasonable time, submit a written
report to the Board as to matters within its jurisdiction, otherwise, to the
Superintendent. Such report shall contain a brief summary of the evidence
considered and state the examiner’s findings, conclusions and recommendations.
The report shall contain a proposed decision, in such form that it may be
adopted by the Board or the Superintendent as the decision in the case. All
examiner’s reports shall be filed by the Department as a public record. A copy
of each proposed decision so filed shall then be mailed to each party. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 139,419, Eff. 11/30/69.)	(c)	Consideration of Report by
Board or the Superintendent  Notice.  The Board or the Superintendent shall
fix a time to consider the examiner’s report. Notice thereof shall be mailed
to each interested party not less than five days prior to the date fixed, unless
it is otherwise stipulated.  (Amended by Ord. No. 139,419, Eff.
11/30/69.)	(d)	Exceptions to Report.  Not later than two days before the date
set to consider the report, any party may file written exceptions to any part or
all of the examiner’s report and may attach thereto a proposed decision
together with written argument in support of such decision. By leave of the
Board or the Superintendent, any party may present oral argument at the time of
consideration of the examiner’s report.  (Amended by Ord. No. 139,419, Eff.
11/30/69.)	(e)	Disposition by the Board or Superintendent.  The Board or the
Superintendent may adopt or reject the proposed decision in its entirety, or may
increase or reduce the proposed penalty, if any, and may adopt the balance of
the proposed decision of the hearing examiner.  (Amended by Ord. No. 139,419,
Eff. 11/30/69.)	(f)	Proposed Decision Not Adopted.  If the proposed decision is
not adopted as provided in Subsection (e), the Board or the Superintendent may
decide the case upon the record, including the transcript, either in whole or in
part, with or without taking additional evidence, or may refer the case to the
same or another hearing examiner to take additional evidence. If the case is so
assigned to another hearing examiner, he shall prepare a report and proposed
decision as provided in Subsection (b) hereof upon any additional evidence
submitted, the transcript of the previous hearing, and other papers which are
part of record of the prior hearing. Consideration of such proposed decision by
the Board or said Superintendent shall comply with the provisions of this
section.  (Amended by Ord. No. 139,419, Eff. 11/30/69.)	(g)	Form of Decision. 
The decision shall be in writing and shall contain findings of fact, a
determination of the issues presented, and the penalty, if any. The findings may
be stated in the language of the accusation or charges, or by reference thereto,
or may be stated in the terms of the applicable rule, regulation or statute
ordinance, a copy of the decision shall be delivered to the respondent
personally or sent to him by registered mail.	(h)	Effective Date of Decision. 
The effective date of the decision shall be stated therein.
