                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

NOTICE OF DEFENSE TO ACCUSATION. (§ 98.0304)

  NOTICE OF DEFENSE TO ACCUSATION.	(a)	Form and Purpose.  Within ten days
after service upon him of the accusation, the respondent may file one or more
notices of defense in which he may:  request a hearing; object to the
accusation upon the ground that it does not state acts or omissions upon which
the Department may proceed; object to the form of the accusation on the ground
that it is so indefinite or uncertain that he cannot identify the transaction or
prepare his defense; admit the accusation in whole or in part.  (Amended by
Ord. No. 139,419, Eff. 11/30/69.)	(b)	Failure to File Notice of Defense –
Waiver.  The respondent shall be entitled to a hearing on the merits if he
files a notice of defense within ten days, and any such notice shall be deemed a
specific denial of all parts of the accusation not expressly admitted. Failure
to file such notice shall constitute a waiver of respondent’s right to a
hearing, but the Department, in its discretion, may nevertheless conduct a
hearing. Unless objection is taken as provided in this section, all objections
to the form of the accusation shall be deemed waived.  (Amended by Ord. No.
139,419, Eff. 11/30/69.)	(c)	Written Notice of Defense.  The notice of defense
shall be in writing signed by or on behalf of the respondent and shall state his
mailing address. It must be verified but need not follow any particular
form.	(d)	Amendment of Accusation.  At any time before the matter is submitted
for decision, the Board, Superintendent or hearing examiner may order or permit
the filing of an amended or supplemental accusation. All parties shall be
notified thereof. If the amended or supplemental accusation presents new
charges, the respondent shall be afforded a reasonable opportunity to prepare a
defense thereto. Any new charges shall be deemed controverted and any objections
to the amended or supplemental accusation may be made orally and shall be noted
in the record.  (Amended by Ord. No. 139,419, Eff. 11/30/69.)
