                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

INSPECTIONS. (§ 98.0105)

  INSPECTIONS.
	(Added by Ord. No. 136,242, Eff. 4/19/68.)	(a)	Whenever it is necessary to make
an inspection to enforce any of the provisions of or perform any duty imposed by
this chapter or other applicable law, or whenever the Superintendent of Building
or his authorized representative has reasonable cause to believe that there
exists in any building or upon any premises any violation of the provisions of
this chapter, or other applicable law, or any condition which makes such
building or premises hazardous, unsafe or dangerous, the Superintendent of
Building or his authorized representative is hereby authorized to enter such
property at any reasonable time and to inspect the same and perform any duty
imposed upon the Superintendent of Building by this chapter or other applicable
law, provided that:	(1)	If such property be occupied, he shall first present
proper credentials to the occupant and request entry explaining his reasons
therefor; and	(2)	If such property is unoccupied, he shall first make a
reasonable effort to locate the owner or other person having charge or control
of the property and request entry, explaining his reasons therefor. If such
entry is refused or cannot be obtained because the owner or other person having
charge or control of the property cannot be found after due diligence, the
Superintendent of Building or his authorized representative shall have recourse
to every remedy provided by law to secure lawful entry and inspect the
property.	(b)	Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Superintendent of Building
or his authorized representative has reasonable cause to believe that the
building or premises is so hazardous, unsafe or dangerous to require immediate
inspection to safeguard the public health or safety, he shall have the right to
immediately enter and inspect such property, and may use any reasonable means
required to effect such entry and make such inspection, whether such property be
occupied or unoccupied and whether or not permission to inspect has been
obtained.  If the property be occupied, he shall first present proper
credentials to the occupant and demand entry, explaining his reasons therefor
and the purpose of his inspection.	(c)	No person shall fail or refuse, after
proper demand has been made upon him as provided in Subsection (b) of this
section, to promptly permit the Superintendent of Building or his authorized
representative to make any inspection provided for by Subsection (b) of this
section. Any person violating this subsection shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.	(d)	The applicant, by accepting any permit issued pursuant to this
chapter, does thereby consent and agree to the entry upon the premises described
in the permit by Department personnel for the purpose of conducting such
inspections as are required by this chapter or other applicable laws.
