                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

EXPIRATION OF PERMITS. (§ 98.0602)

  EXPIRATION OF PERMITS.
	(Former Sec. 98.0603 Redesignated by Ord. No. 165,310, Eff.
12/31/89.)	(a)	Every permit issued shall be valid for a period of two years from
the date thereof, provided that any permit shall expire on the one hundred and
eightieth (180) day from date of issuance if the work permitted thereunder has
not been commenced; or shall expire whenever the Department determines the work
authorized by any permit has been suspended, discontinued or abandoned for a
continuous period of 180 days.	EXCEPTION:  If the holder of any permit issued
by the Department presents satisfactory evidence that unusual construction
difficulties have prevented work from being started or continued without being
suspended within the 180-day time period or completed within the two-year period
of validity, the Department or the Board may grant extensions of time reasonably
necessary because of such difficulties.	Notwithstanding the provisions of this
subsection, the validity of a permit may be further restricted in the following
conditions:	1.	In the case that a building or structure has been ordered
repaired or demolished in accordance with Section 91.8903, 91.8904 or 91.8905 of
the Code such time limits as are specified therein shall apply.	2.	The
Department or the Board may, because of unusual circumstances or conditions such
as, but not limited to, the demolition of an imminently hazardous building, or a
grading operation which may be subject to flooding during the rainy season,
impose restrictions upon the time limits for expiration of any permit.	3.	The
time limit of validity of relocation permits shall be as specified in Section
91.8306 of the Code.	4.	The time limit of validity of tent permits shall be as
specified in Section 91.5501 of the Code.	5.	The time limit of validity of
permits for the installation of metal bars, grills, grates, security roll-down
shutters, and similar devices, and of quick-release systems shall be as
specified in Section 91.1204 of the Code.	(b)	Permits which have expired shall
have the site, building or project restored to the condition which existed
immediately prior to the commencement of work described by such permit.	(c)	It
shall be unlawful for any owner, either before or after the issuance of a permit
under this section, and notwithstanding the issuance of such permit, to fail to
comply with any order, determination or action of the Department or Board.
