                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

AUTHORITY TO MAKE RULES AND REGULATIONS. (§ 98.0201)

  AUTHORITY TO MAKE RULES AND REGULATIONS.	(a)	General.  The Superintendent
may, from time to time, promulgate rules and regulations, not in conflict with
this Code, governing the duties, capabilities, and conduct of licensees. Any
person violating such rules and regulations shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 139,419, Eff. 11/30/69.)	(b)	Publishing of Rules and
Regulations.  All such rules and regulations shall be published once in a daily
newspaper of general circulation in the City of Los Angeles, and shall take
effect upon publication, in accordance with applicable
regulations.	(c)	Revocation, Suspension or Limitation.  The Superintendent may,
upon his own initiative, or upon the verified complaint in writing of any
person, investigate the action of any licensee, and may temporarily suspend, for
a period not exceeding one year, or revoke his license for any one or more of
the acts or omissions constituting grounds for disciplinary action provided by
Section 98.0202. The procedure on suspension or revocation shall comply with the
provisions set forth in this article.  (Amended by Ord. No. 139,419, Eff.
11/30/69.)	(d)	Hearing Available.  In any action to suspend, revoke, limit, or
refuse the renewal of any license, a hearing by the Board shall be available to
the licensee as set forth and in the manner specifically provided for in this
article. (Amended by Ord. No. 139,419, Eff. 6/30/69.)	(e)	New Application After
Denial or Revocation.  When any license is revoked for cause, no new or other
application for a similar license from the same applicant shall be accepted
within one year after such revocation. When an application for renewal of a
license is denied for cause, no new or other application shall be accepted
within one year after denial unless the applicant can show a material change in
his situation which would justify the issuance.	(f)	Special Renewal Provisions
for Service in Armed Forces.  Whenever, under the provisions of this chapter, a
person who previously held a license applies for a renewal thereof and shows to
the satisfaction of the Superintendent that his failure to renew such license
within the time provided herein resulted from his induction or entrance into the
armed forces of the United States or of any allied nation, and that the
application for renewal is made within six months after the applicant’s
honorable discharge from the service, his application shall be deemed an
application for renewal and the renewal fee only shall be charged therefor. 
(Amended by Ord. No. 139,419, Eff. 11/30/69.)	(g)	Lapse or Suspension –
Jurisdiction of the Department.  The lapse or suspension of a license by
operation of law, or the voluntary surrender of such, shall not deprive the
Department of jurisdiction to proceed with any investigation of, or disciplinary
proceedings against, the licensee, or to render a decision denying, suspending
or revoking his license.  (Amended by Ord. No. 139,419, Eff.
11/30/69.)	(h)	Prior Acts No Bar to Department Action. The Department may take
disciplinary action against a licensee as provided in this article even though
the grounds for disciplinary action arose prior to the granting of the license.
(Amended by Ord. No. 139,419, Eff. 11/30/69.)
