                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY OF THE HARBOR DEPARTMENT WITHIN THE HARBOR DISTRICT. (§
98.0102.1)

  ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY OF THE HARBOR DEPARTMENT WITHIN THE HARBOR DISTRICT.
	(Added by Ord. No. 182,330, Eff. 1/14/13.)	(a)	Grant of Authority.  The Los
Angeles City Council hereby grants the power and duty to enforce all ordinances
and laws applicable to the following specified types of work projects as related
to the construction, alteration, repair and demolition, or removal of buildings
or structures, and to the installation, alteration, repair, use and operation of
all heating, plumbing, lighting, ventilating, refrigerating, electrical and
mechanical appliances and equipment within the Harbor District currently within
the Department of Building and Safety to the Harbor Department; provided,
however, that said grant is effective only with respect to the following types
of projects within the Harbor District.	(1)	All work within the automated
portion of an Automated Container Terminal.  An Automated Container Terminal is
defined as a fenced in facility within the Harbor District that moves, sorts, or
stores ocean going containers through the use of remotely or automatically
controlled container handling equipment, to or from vessels, rail cars, trucks,
Automated Guided Vehicles (AGVs), Automated Stacking Cranes (ASCs), shuttle
carriers or other container movers;	(2)	Cranes and Terminal Cargo Handling
Equipment (self-propelled or electrified);	(3)	Electrical Power Cables and their
associated plug connectors for Cranes and Terminal Cargo Handling
Equipment;	(4)	Heavy duty pavement for storage (non-building);	(5)	Earthwork and
Terminal Grading and paving (non-building or non-structure);	(6)	Stone Columns,
Deep Dynamic Compaction, Jet Grouting and other ground improvements for seawall,
dike, wharf and terminal when associated with non-buildings or
non-structure;	(7)	Non-electrical installation for Wharves and Utility Systems
for Wharves;	(8)	Floating docks (non-electrical installation only);	(9)	Storm
drains (non-building) installations on Harbor property that are designed and
installed per the City of Los Angeles Public Works guidelines and comply with
all City and State ordinances related to storm water (such as SUSAMP, LID and
PMP) required by the Department of Public works or other City and State
agencies;	(10)	Sewers main installations on Harbor property that are designed
and installed per the City of Los Angeles Public Works guidelines;
and	(11)	Dikes, dolphins, navigation aids, channel crossings, dredging,
reclaimed landfills and any improvements under the jurisdiction or permit
authority of the United States Army Corps of Engineers.	(b)	Collection for
Services Rendered.  Effective upon the grant of authority provided for in
Subsection (a), above, the Harbor Department is authorized to collect all fees,
charges, costs, fines or penalties which are applicable to enforcement of those
same ordinances and laws pursuant to this Code.
