                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

POWERS OF THE DEPARTMENT AND THE BOARD. (§ 98.0403.1)

  POWERS OF THE DEPARTMENT AND THE BOARD.
	(Former Sec. 98.0403 Redesignated by Ord. No. 165,310, Eff.
12/31/89.)	(a)	Powers of the Department.	1.	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,159, Eff.
5/7/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  The Department is granted the power to enforce all
ordinances and laws relating to the construction, alteration, repair and
demolition, or removal of buildings or structures in the City, and to the
installation, alteration, repair, use, and operation of all heating, plumbing,
lighting, ventilating, refrigerating, electrical and mechanical appliances and
equipment in those buildings or structures.	2.	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,159,
Eff. 5/7/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  The Department is granted the power to enforce all
ordinances and laws relating to the construction, alteration, repair, removal or
installation of elevators, escalators, console and/or stage lifts, incline cars,
manlifts, manhoists, steam boilers, pressure vessels and all connections and
appurtenances pertaining to their proper functioning.	3.	(Amended by Ord. No.
173,159, Eff. 5/7/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  The Department is granted the power to
enforce the zoning ordinances of the City.	4.	(Amended by Ord. No. 171,455, Eff.
1/30/97.)  The Department shall have the power and duty to enforce all
ordinances and laws relating to grading and control of excessive dust
emission.	5.	The Department shall have the power and duty to enforce all
portions of the Rules and Regulations of the State Fire Marshal which relate to
the construction, alteration, repair, demolition, or removal of buildings, or
structures, and to the use and operation of all heating, plumbing, lighting,
ventilating, refrigerating, electrical, and mechanical appliances therein.
Provided, however, that no application for modification of specific provisions
of the Rules and Regulations of the State Fire Marshal shall be granted by the
Department, unless and until such application shall be first submitted to the
Chief Engineer of the Fire Department or his representative for report and
recommendation with respect thereto.	6.	The Department shall have the power to
enforce those building regulations mandated by State or Federal law to be
enforced by the local building Department or building official.	7.	The
Department shall have the power to enforce States laws relating to buildings,
structures and construction activities provided the authority to do so has been
allowed or granted by the State and the Department has determined to undertake
such enforcement.	8.	The Department shall have the power to enforce other
ordinances and laws when designated to do so by law.	9.	In the exercise of the
powers enumerated in this subsection, the Department shall have the power to
apply the building ordinances of the City (Chapter 9 of the Code) and those
building regulations mandated by State law to be enforced by the local agency,
building Department or building official to buildings and structures containing
one or more air space lots as defined in Chapter 1, Article 2, of the Code so as
to treat the entirety of such buildings or structures as if they were on or
within a single lot, provided:	i.	That such buildings or structures or portions
thereof would otherwise conform to such ordinances and regulations, but for the
creation of such air space lots; and	ii.	That a covenant and agreement, in a
form designed to run with the land and satisfactory to the Department be
recorded with the Office of the County Recorder and a copy filed with the
Department by the owners binding themselves and future owners and assigns to
keep, preserve and maintain all portions of such buildings or structures in
accordance with and pursuant to such building ordinances and
regulations.	10.	(Amended by Ord. No. 170,141, Eff. 1/2/95.)  The Department
shall have the power to hear and act upon requests for slight modifications in
individual cases to the building ordinances of the City, and regulations under
Articles 1 through 8 of Chapter IX of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.	In
granting a request for a slight modification, the Department shall determine
that the slight modification is reasonably equivalent to the ordinance
requirement involved, that a special individual reason makes the strict letter
of the ordinance impractical and that the slight modification is in conformity
with the spirit and purpose of the code or codes involved.	11.	(Added by Ord.
No. 170,141, Eff. 1/2/95.)  The Department shall have the power to hear and
determine requests for slight modifications for individual cases in the yard
area requirements of the zoning ordinance, provided that in each such
modification, the Superintendent shall first find that a special, individual
reason makes the strict letter of the ordinance impractical and that the
modification is in conformity with the spirit and purpose of the ordinance
involved.  Any action granting a modification shall be recorded and entered in
the files of the Department.	For structures and additions constructed after
January 1, 1995, slight modifications from the yard requirements shall be
limited to deviations permitting portions of buildings to extend into a required
yard or other open space a distance of not to exceed 20 percent of the width or
depth of such required yard or open space.  However, for structures and
additions existing prior to January 1, 1995, slight modifications may be granted
for yard deviations slightly over 20 percent.	Except as expressly provided
herein, the Superintendent of Building shall not grant deviations from the lot
area, height, or density requirements.  Further, the Superintendent shall not
grant deviations from the yard requirements relating to the height of fences and
walls, or including those for tennis or paddle tennis courts and other game
courts.	If the yard regulations cannot reasonably be complied with or it is
difficult to determine their application on lots of peculiar shape or location,
then the regulations may be modified or determined by the Superintendent of
Building.  The Superintendent may also waive all or part of the required
loading space on unusually shaped lots, oddly located lots, or hillside lots,
when such space cannot reasonably be provided or utilized.	Requests for yard
modifications as provided in this subsection shall be made in accordance with
the procedures established in Section 98.0403.2 of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code.	12.	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,364, Eff. 7/29/00.)  The Department shall
have the power to enforce any administrative nuisance abatement determination
made by the Zoning Administrator, former Board of Zoning Appeals, City Planning
Commission, Director of Planning or City Council.  There shall be no
administrative appeal to any City official or Board from such an enforcement
action by the Department.	(b)	Powers of the Board.	1.	(Amended by Ord. No.
175,428, Eff. 9/28/03.)  The Board shall have the power to hear and act upon
appeals filed by any person aggrieved by the Department requesting a slight
modification under this section, except for those actions permitted in
subsection (a)11.	If the Board grants a slight modification on appeal, then the
Board shall make the same findings as required by the Department when acting on
a slight modification.	2.	(Amended by Ord. No. 175,428, Eff. 9/28/03.)  The
Board shall have the power to hear and determine appeals from orders,
interpretations, requirements, determinations, or actions of the Department
pertaining to enforcement of specific ordinances, regulations, or laws in
site-specific cases.  These appeals shall state how the Department has erred or
abused its discretion in the matter of the appeal.  The Department shall
provide the Board with a written report on the appeal.  The Department,
however, may reverse or modify the action appealed at any time prior to final
action by the Commission.  The Board shall hear and make its determination on
the appeal no later than the 30th calendar day after the appeal is
heard.	Notwithstanding the above, the Board shall have no authority to hear and
determine appeals from orders, interpretations, requirements, determinations, or
actions of the Department pertaining to enforcement of specific ordinances,
regulations, or laws contained in Chapter I of this Code and in other land use
ordinances.  Any appeal concerning these requirements shall be made to the
Director of Planning in accordance with the provisions set forth in Section
12.26 K.	The Department shall maintain a file of requests from individuals or
groups who wish to be notified of certain determinations on individual job
addresses.  These requests shall be submitted to the Department in writing and
shall specify the subject job address, and the address and telephone number
where they wish to be notified.  The request shall be in force until the end of
the calendar year in which the request is filed and the request may be renewed
at any time during the subsequent calendar year.	The Department shall provide a
copy of board agendas by U.S. mail to individuals or groups who wish to receive
them.  The mailing of agendas shall be maintained by a yearly subscription fee
of $50.00.  A subscription fee of $25.00 will be charged if there is less than
six months remaining in the calendar year.  Fees for individual and/or mail
requests for copies of board agendas and other documents shall be as set forth
in Los Angeles Administrative Code Sections 12.31 and 12.32.	3.	The Board shall
have the power to act in other situations as provided by ordinance or
law.	4.	The Board shall have the power to refuse to hear an appeal if the Board
determines that the appeal is basically a restatement of a previous appeal on
the same job and no substantial additional justification has been presented by
the appellant.	5.	The power of the Board shall not include the right to hear and
act upon any of the following:	i.	An appeal from the Department’s action on a
request for a slight modification, an appeal of a legitimate Department order or
an appeal objecting to the Department’s determination, if such appeal is:	a) 
Filed on or after the date a citation is issued charging a person with a
violation of the Code or any other ordinance or law enforced by the Department,
and the appeal in any way involves the citation issuance, an arrest associated
with the citation issuance, or the facts or Code issues underlying the citation
issuance.	b)  (Amended by Ord. No. 170,324, Eff. 3/6/95.)  Filed on or after
evidence of a violation of the Code or any other ordinance or law enforced by
the Department is presented to and accepted by the City Attorney for criminal
prosecution.	If an appeal or request for a slight modification is not filed with
15 days after the Department’s action on the violation, the action and/or
determination of the Department shall be final.	ii.	An appeal in violation of
limitations placed upon the Board’s powers as specified in other ordinances,
regulations, or law.	iii.	(Repealed by Ord. No. 175,428, Eff. 9/28/03.)	iv.	If
the Board or Superintendent determines that an appeal or request for a slight
modification, filed with the Board, relates to Department enforcement of laws or
access to public accommodations and housing by the physically handicapped, then
the matter shall be referred to the Handicapped Access Appeals Commission for
its action. The Board’s jurisdiction shall not include the right to hear
appeals from or otherwise review any action, order, or determination of the
Handicapped Access Appeals Commission.	v.	(Amended by Ord. No. 173,159, Eff.
5/7/00, Oper. 7/1/00.)  An appeal dealing with financial, personnel, or
administrative issues or other similar matters.	vi.	(Amended by Ord. No.
173,364, Eff. 7/29/00.)  An appeal seeking relief from any nuisance abatement
determination or enforcement decision of the Department relating to any
administrative nuisance abatement determination made by the Zoning
Administrator, former Board of Zoning Appeals, City Planning Commission,
Director of Planning or City Council.
