                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

COVERING OF DUCT OPENINGS AND PROTECTION OF MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT DURING
CONSTRUCTION. (§ 99.05.504)

99.05.504.3.  Covering of Duct Openings and Protection of Mechanical Equipment
During Construction.  At the time of rough installation, or during storage on
the construction site and until final startup of the heating and cooling
equipment, all duct and other related air distribution component openings shall
be covered with tape, plastic, sheetmetal or other methods acceptable to the
Department to reduce the amount of dust or debris which may collect in the
system.99.05.504.4.3.2.  Verification.  Verification of compliance with this
section shall be provided at the request of the Department.  Documentation may
include, but is not limited to, the following:	1.	Manufacturer’s product
specification;	2.	Field verification of on-site product containers;	3.	Other
methods acceptable to the Department.99.05.504.4.5.2.  Documentation. 
Verification of compliance with this section shall be provided as requested by
the Department.  Documentation shall include at least one of the
following:	1.	Product certifications and specifications;	2.	Chain of custody
certifications; or	3.	Other methods acceptable to the
Department.99.05.504.4.6.  Resilient Flooring Systems.  For 50 percent of
floor area receiving resilient flooring, install resilient flooring complying
with the VOC-emission limits defined in the 2009 Collaborative for High
Performance Schools (CHPS) criteria and listed on its Low-emitting Materials
List (or Product Registry) or certified under the Resilient Floor Covering
Institute (RFCI) FloorScore program.99.05.504.7.  Environmental Tobacco Smoke
(ETS) Control.  Where outdoor areas are provided for smoking, prohibit smoking
within 25 feet of building entries, outdoor air intakes and operable windows and
in buildings; or as enforced by ordinances, regulations, or policies of the
city, whichever are more stringent.  When ordinances, regulations, or policies
are not in place, post signage to inform building occupants of the prohibitions.
