                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

INSTALLER TRAINING. (§ 99.07.702)

99.07.702.1.    HVAC system installers shall be trained and certified in the
proper installation of HVAC systems including ducts and equipment by a
nationally or regionally recognized training or certification program. 
Uncertified persons may perform HVAC installations when under the direct
supervision and responsibility of a person trained and certified to install HVAC
systems or contractor licensed to install HVAC systems.  Examples of acceptable
HVAC training and certification programs include but are not limited to the
following:	1.	State certified apprenticeship programs;	2.	Public utility
training programs;	3.	Training programs sponsored by trade, labor or statewide
energy consulting or verification organizations;	4.	Programs sponsored by
manufacturing organizations; or	5.	Other programs acceptable to the
Department.99.07.702.2.  Special Inspection for Low-Rise Residential
Buildings.  When required by the Department, the owner or the responsible
entity acting as the owner’s agent shall employ one or more special inspectors
to provide inspection or other duties necessary to substantiate compliance with
this code.  Special inspectors shall demonstrate competence to the satisfaction
of the Department for the particular type of inspection or task to be
performed.  In addition to other certifications or qualifications acceptable to
the Department, the following certifications or education may be considered by
the Department when evaluating the qualifications of a special
inspector:	1.	Certification by a national or regional green building program or
standard publisher.	2.	Certification by a statewide energy consulting or
verification organization, such as HERS raters, building performance
contractors, and home energy auditors.	3.	Successful completion of a third party
apprentice training program in the appropriate trade.	4.	Other programs
acceptable to the Department.	Notes:	1.	Special inspectors shall be independent
entities with no financial interest in the materials or the project they are
inspecting for compliance with this code.	2.	HERS raters are special inspectors
certified by the California Energy Commission (CEC) to rate homes in California
according to the Home Energy Rating System (HERS).99.07.702.3.  Special
Inspection for Non-Residential and High-Rise Buildings.  When required by the
Department, the owner or the responsible entity acting as the owner’s agent
shall employ one or more special inspectors to provide inspection or other
duties necessary to substantiate compliance with this code.  Special inspectors
shall demonstrate competence to the satisfaction of the Department for the
particular type of inspection or task to be performed.  In addition, the
special inspector shall have a certification from a recognized state, national,
or international association, as determined by the Department.  The area of
certification shall be closely related to the primary job function, as
determined by the Department..	Note:  Special inspectors shall be independent
entities with no financial interest in the materials or the project they are
inspecting for compliance with this code.
