                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

POWERS OF THE DEPARTMENT. (§ 99.01.108)

  POWERS OF THE DEPARTMENT.99.01.108.1.  General.  The powers of the
Department are enumerated in Section 98.0403.1 of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code.	The Superintendent of Building shall have the duty to render
interpretations of this code and to adopt and enforce rules and supplemental
regulations to clarify the application of its provisions.  These
interpretations, rules and regulations shall be in conformance with the intent
and purpose of this code.99.01.108.2.  Authority to Require Exposure of Work. 
Whenever any work required by this code is covered and concealed by additional
work without first having been inspected, the work shall be exposed for
examination upon written notice by the Department.  The work of exposing and
recovering shall not entail expense to the City of Los Angeles.99.01.108.3. 
Right of Entry.  The authority for right of entry is enumerated in Section
98.0105 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.99.01.108.4.  Authority to Stop
Work.  Whenever any construction work is being done contrary to the provision
of any law or ordinance enforced by the Department, the Department shall have
the authority to issue a written notice to the responsible party to stop work on
that portion of the work on which the violation has occurred.  The notice shall
state that the nature of the violation and no work shall be done on that portion
until violation has been rectified and approval obtained by the
Department.99.01.108.5.  Modifications.  The Department shall have the power
to hear and act upon requests for slight modification in individual cases to the
green building ordinances of the City, and regulations under Article 9 of
Chapter 9 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.	In granting a request for a slight
modification, the Department shall determine that the slight modification is
reasonably equivalent to the code requirement involved, that a special
individual reason makes the strict letter of the code impractical and the slight
modification is in conformity with the spirit and purpose of the code or codes
involved.
