                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS AND INSTALLATION VERIFICATION. (§ 99.01.102)

  CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS AND INSTALLATION VERIFICATION.99.01.102.1.  Submittal
Documents.  Construction documents and other data shall be submitted in one or
more sets with each application for a permit.  Where special conditions exist,
the Department is authorized to require additional construction documents to be
prepared by a licensed design professional and may be submitted
separately.	EXCEPTION:  The Department is authorized to waive the submission of
construction documents and other data not required to be prepared by a licensed
design professional.99.01.102.2.  Information on Construction Documents. 
Construction documents shall be of sufficient clarity to indicate the location,
nature and scope of the proposed green building feature and show that it will
conform to the provisions of this code, the Los Angeles Building Standards Code
and other relevant laws, ordinances, rules and regulations as determined by the
Department.  The construction document and other data submitted to the
Department for checking shall be drawn with ink or indelible pencil, or shall be
made by a reproducible process approved by the Department.99.01.102.3. 
Verification.  Documentation of conformance for applicable green building
measures shall be provided to the Department.  Alternate methods of
documentation shall be acceptable when the Department finds that the proposed
alternate documentation is satisfactory to demonstrate substantial conformance
with the intent of the proposed green building measure.99.01.102.4.  Official
Stamp.  When construction documents and other data fully comply with the
provisions of this code, the Department shall place an official stamp of
approval on all applicable sheets of each set.99.01.102.5.  Validity of
Approval.  The stamping or approval of any construction document or other data
shall not be held to permit, or to be an approval of, the violation of any
provision of this code.99.01.102.6.  Alterations to Stamped Construction
Documents.  No stamped or approved set of construction documents or data shall
be altered in any manner, except when and as approved by the
Department.99.01.102.7.  Stamped Plans on Job.  The stamped set of
construction documents and other data shall be kept at the site of the
construction work and shall be available to the authorized representative of the
Department.  There shall be no deviation from the stamped or approved
application, construction document, or other data without the Department’s
approval.99.01.102.8.  Validity of Permit.  The issuance of a permit is not an
approval or an authorization of the work specified therein.  A permit is merely
an application for inspection, the issuance of which entitles the permittee to
inspection of the work which is described therein.	Permits issued under the
requirements of this code shall not relieve the owner of responsibility for
securing required permits for work to be done which is regulated by any other
code, department or division of the City of Los Angeles.	All permits are issued
subject to the following conditions:	If the work described by a valid permit is
prohibited by a change in the Los Angeles Municipal Code, then such work may be
completed only if the Department determined that both substantial liabilities
have been incurred, and substantial work has been performed on site, in
accordance with the terms of that permit.  Work performed and liabilities
incurred pursuant to a demolition or relocation permit shall not be considered
in determining whether an owner may complete a building or structure for which a
building permit has been issued.99.01.102.9.  Validity of Other Laws.  Neither
the issuance of a permit nor the approval by the Department of any document
shall constitute an approval of any violation of any provision of this code or
of any other law or ordinance, and a permit or other document purporting to give
authority to violate any law shall not be valid with respect
thereto.99.01.102.10.  Making False Statements to the Department.  Any person
who willfully or knowingly, with the intent to deceive, makes a false statement
or representation, or knowingly fails to disclose a material fact in any
documentation required by the Department, including any oral or written evidence
presented, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
