                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

STORM WATER DRAINAGE AND RETENTION DURING CONSTRUCTION. (§ 99.04.106)

99.04.106.2.  Storm Water Drainage and Retention During Construction. 
Projects which disturb less than one acre of soil and are not part of a larger
common plan of development which in total disturbs one acre or more, shall
manage storm water drainage during construction.  In order to manage storm
water drainage during construction one or more of the following measures shall
be implemented to prevent flooding of adjacent property, prevent erosion and
retain soil runoff on the site:	1.	Retention basins of sufficient size shall be
utilized to retain storm water on the site;	2.	Where storm water is conveyed to
a public drainage system, collection point, gutter, or similar disposal method,
water shall be filtered by use of a barrier system, wattle or other method
approved by the Department; or	3.	Compliance with City of Los Angeles’ storm
water management ordinance(s).99.04.106.6.  Electric Vehicle Supply
Wiring.	1.	For one- or two- family dwellings and townhouses, provide a minimum
of:	a.	One 208/240 V 40 amp, grounded AC outlet, for each dwelling unit;
or	b.	Panel capacity and conduit for the future installation of a 208/240 V 40
amp, grounded AC outlet, for each dwelling unit.	The electrical outlet or
conduit termination shall be located adjacent to the parking area.	2.	For other
residential occupancies where there is a common parking area, provide one of the
following:	a.	A minimum number of 208/240 V 40 amp, grounded AC outlets equal to
5 percent of the total number of parking spaces.  The outlets shall be located
within the parking area; or	b.	Panel capacity and conduit for future
installation of electrical outlets.  The panel capacity and conduit size shall
be designed to accommodate the future installation, and allow the simultaneous
charging, of a minimum number of 208/240 V 40 amp, grounded AC outlets, that is
equal to 5 percent of the total number of parking spaces. The conduit shall
terminate within the parking area; or	c.	Additional service capacity, space for
future meters, and conduit for future installation of electrical outlets.  The
service capacity and conduit size shall be designed to accommodate the future
installation, and allow the simultaneous charging, of a minimum number of
208/240 V 40 amp, grounded AC outlets, that is equal to 5 percent of the total
number of parking spaces.  The conduit shall terminate within the parking
area.	When the application of the 5 percent results in a fractional space, round
up to the next whole number.
ENERGY EFFICIENCY
