                            LOS ANGELES MUNICIPAL CODE

ADMINISTRATION. (§ 99.01.101)

  ADMINISTRATION.

99.01.101.1.  Title.  These regulations shall be known as the Los Angeles
Green Building Code and may be cited as such and will be referred to herein as
“this code”.  The Los Angeles Green Building Code is Article 9 of a total
of 9 Articles of Chapter IX of the Los Angeles Municipal Code, and adopts by
reference the CALGreen Code except as amended herein.

99.01.101.3.  Scope.  The provisions of this code shall apply to the
construction of every new  building, every building alteration with a building
permit valuation of over $200,000 and every building addition, unless otherwise
indicated in this code, throughout the City of Los Angeles.

99.01.101.4.  Appendices.  Provisions contained in the appendices of this code
are not mandatory.

99.01.101.5.  Referenced Codes and Standards.  The codes and standards
referenced elsewhere in this code shall be considered part of the requirements
of this code to the prescribed extent of each such reference.

99.01.101.5.1.  Building.  The provisions of the Los Angeles Building Code and
Los Angeles Residential Code, as applicable, shall apply to the construction,
alteration, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, use and occupancy,
location, maintenance, removal and demolition of every structure or any
appurtenances connected or attached to such buildings or structures.

99.01.101.5.2.  Electrical.  The provisions of the Los Angeles Electrical Code
shall apply to the installation of electrical systems, including but not limited
to, alterations, repair, replacement, equipment, appliances, fixtures, fittings
and appurtenances thereto.

99.01.101.5.3.  Mechanical.  The provisions of the Los Angeles Mechanical Code
shall apply to the installation, alterations, repair and replacement of
mechanical systems, including equipment, appliances, fixtures, fittings and/or
appurtenances, including ventilating, heating, cooling, air-conditioning and
refrigeration systems, incinerators and other energy-related systems.

99.01.101.5.4.  Plumbing.  The provisions of the Los Angeles Plumbing Code
shall apply to the installation, alteration, repair and replacement of plumbing
systems, including equipment, appliances, fixtures, fittings and appurtenances
where connected to a water or sewage system.

99.01.101.5.5.  Fire Prevention.  The provisions of CCR, Title 19, Division 1
and CCR, Title 24, Part 2 and Part 9 relating to fire and panic safety as
adopted by the Office of the State Fire Marshal shall apply to all structures,
processes and premises for protection from the hazard of fire, panic and
explosion.

99.01.101.5.6.  Energy.  The provisions of the California Energy Code shall
apply to the minimum design and construction of buildings for energy efficiency.

99.01.101.6.3.  Conflicts.  When the requirements of this code conflict with
the requirements of any other part of the Los Angeles Municipal Code, the most
restrictive requirement shall prevail.

99.01.101.8.  Alternate Materials, Designs and Methods Of Construction.  The
provisions of this code are not intended to prevent the use of any alternate
material, appliance, installation, device, arrangement, method, design or method
of construction not specifically prescribed by this code, provided that any such
alternative has been approved.  An alternate shall be approved on a
case-by-case basis where the Department finds that the proposed alternate is
satisfactory and complies with the intent of the provisions of this code and is
at least the equivalent of that prescribed in this code in planning and design,
energy, water, material resource conservation and efficiency, environmental air
quality, performance, safety and the protection of life and health.

99.01.101.10.  Mandatory Requirements.  This code contains both mandatory and
voluntary green building measures.  Mandatory and voluntary measures are
identified in the appropriate divisions in this code.
